> Who is a Reporting Entity?
> Reporting Entity or Reporting Person is an entity which is required to furnish a Statement of Financial Transaction (in Form 61 A) or Statement of Reportable Account (in Form 61B) with the Income tax Department as per the provisions of section 285BA of the Income-tax Act 1961. Also, Under Rule 114D of IT rules 1962, any entity/person receiving Form 60 is required to report details of Form 60 in Form 61.
> What are the Reporting Obligations u/s 285BA of the IT Act?
> Under the Annual Information Return (AIR) Scheme, which was introduced w.e.f. 01-04-2004, specified entities were required to report notified transactions to ITD. Section 285BA of the IT Act was amended w.e.f. 01-04-2015, and it now requires specified persons to furnish Statement of Financial Transaction or reportable account. Under Rule 114D of IT rules 1962, details of Form 60 are required to be reported in Form 61. Rule 114E mentions the nature and value of transactions which are required to be reported. Rules 114F, 114G and 114H deal with due diligence procedure for identification and reporting of reportable accounts.
> What are different forms relating to third party reporting u/s 285BA?
> There are three forms namely Form 61, 61A and 61B.
> Form61: Details of Form 60 submitted by transacting parties not having PAN
> Form 61A: Statement of financial transactions (SFT)
> Form61B: Statement of reportable accounts (SRA)
> What is Form 61?
> As per rule 114B of IT rules 1962, an entity is required to obtain PAN of the transacting party for the transactions specified. In case transacting party does not have a PAN, Form 60 is to be filled by transacting party. Details of these Form 60 are to be reported in Form 61 for the period for the period 1st April to 30th of September of the financial year by 31st of October and 1st October to 31st March of the financial year by 30th of April.
> What is Form 61A?
> As per rule 114E of the IT rules 1962, a Reporting Entity is required to file statement of financial transaction in Form 61A. A Reporting Entity has to report in specified SFT reportable transaction of the nature specified in this rule for the relevant financial year on or before 31st of May immediately following the financial year.
> What is Form 61B?
> Requirement of filing Form 61B is raised for implementation of FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act) and CRS (Common Reporting Standard). For this purpose rule 114F, 114G and 114H are to be referred. Briefly, these rules provide for due diligence procedure for identification of reportable accounts. Once a Reporting Entity identifies reportable accounts, information about such accounts is to be filed in Form 61B for the calendar year by 31st of May following the end of the calendar year.
> What is Project Insight?
> Income tax Department has initiated Project Insight to focus on three goals namely (i)      To promote voluntary compliance and deter noncompliance;(ii)     To impart confidence that all eligible persons pay appropriate tax; and(iii)    To promote fair and judicious tax administration. Under this project, an integrated data warehousing and business intelligence platform is being rolled out in a phased manner. Th project also operationalizes two new centres namely Income Tax Transaction Analysis Centre (INTRAC) and Compliance Management Centralized Processing Centre (CMCPC).
> What is Income Tax Transaction Analysis Centre (INTRAC)?
> The Income Tax Transaction Analysis Centre (INTRAC) is the new centre operationalized under Project Insight. INTRAC leverages data analytics for tax administration and performs tasks related to data integration, data processing, data quality monitoring, data warehousing, master data management, data analytics, web/text mining, alert generation, compliance management, enterprise reporting and research support.
> What is Compliance Management Centralized Processing Centre (CMCPC)?
> The Compliance Management Centralized Processing Centre (CMCPC) is one of the Centralized Processing Centres of Income tax Department, operationalized under Project Insight. The Compliance Management Centralized Processing Centre (CMCPC) uses campaign management approach (consisting of emails, SMS, reminders, outbound calls, letters) to support voluntary compliance and resolution of compliance issues of tax payers, tax deductors & reporting entities.
> What is Reporting Portal?
> Reporting Portal is an online facility made available to Reporting entities to register with the Income Tax Department and consequently submit the statements in prescribed format.
> What are the enhancements in the Reporting Portal over e-filing portal?
> The Reporting Portal provides enhancements (over present functionalities on the e-filing portal) in the following aspects:
> i.        Seamless data processing & quality monitoring
> ii.       Data encryption for enhanced security
> iii.          Seamless information exchange with reporting entities
> iv.           Comprehensive resources module for capacity building
> v.        Seamless Reporting Entity compliance management
> vi.           Dedicated helpdesk support
> How can Reporting Portal be accessed?
> Step 1: Enter Reporting Portal URL in web browser: https://report.insight.gov.in.
> Step 2: Enter valid credentials provided by Income Tax Department
> Step 3: Click on Submit
> What are the basic features of Reporting Portal?
> Following are the basic features of Reporting Portal:
>               i.   Registration – Reporting Entities can register with Reporting Portal & can generate ITDREIN.                  
>              ii.   Addition and Deactivation of Users – Reporting Entity can add/deactivate users from profile section of Reporting Portal.                    
>             iii.   Reporting Entity Profile Update – Reporting Entity profile can be updated from profile section of Reporting Portal.                   
>             iv.    Statement Upload - Reporting Entity can upload statements which have been generated and validated against prescribed format through utilities.                    
>             v.     View Uploaded Statements – Reporting Entity can view uploaded statements.
>             vi.    Correction Statement Upload - Reporting Entity can also upload the correction statements generated as per Data Quality Report.                    
>            vii.    Preliminary Response Submission - Reporting Entity can submit preliminary response for different SFTs.
                   
>            viii.   Resources – Reporting Entity can download utilities, user guides and training material.

> Other functionalities of the Reporting Portal will be rolled out in a phased manner.
> Who can access the Reporting Portal?
> Access to the various web services at Reporting Portal is role based. Principal Officer of the Reporting Entity and others who have been authorized by the principal officer can access the portal with valid user id and password for login to the Reporting Portal.
> What is the need to register on Reporting Portal?
> Reporting Portal is one of the main components of Project Insight platform to provide a comprehensive interface between Reporting Entities and the Income-tax Department. The Reporting Portal will enable the Reporting Entity to avail the various web services (including statement upload) provided by the ITD and also keep track of the status of the various statements uploaded and processed.

> What are the different categories in which Reporting Entity can register?
> There are two set of categories for reporting entities depending upon the form type.
> For Form 61 and61A:
> M - Mutual Fund
> N - NBFC/Nidhi
> P - Post Office
> R - Reserve Bank of India
> S - Securities Market Intermediary
> I - Insurer
> G - Government
> O - Others
> C - Co-operative Bank
> B - Banking Company
> D - Depository
> For Form 61B:
> S - Specified Insurance Company
> I - Investment Entity
> C – Custodial Institution
> D - Depository Institution
> O – Other
> How can a Reporting Entity initiate the registration?
> The Principal Contact of the Reporting Entity on e-filing portal will initiate the registration by accessing the “Reporting Portal” link at e-filing Portal under “My Account” tab.Principal Contact will be redirected to the Reporting Portal for registration. Principal Contact will identify the authorised persons i.e. Principal Officer and Designated Director and enter the basic information required. User ids and passwords will be provided to respective users. They will be able to login on the Reporting Portal using the communicated User id and password.
> Who is the Principal Contact of Reporting Entity?
> Principal contact is the individual who is authorised by the relevant entity to manage the entity’s profile on e-filing portal. For example, for any company, XYZ person can be authorized to use company’s credentials and use e-filing portal on behalf of the company.
> What are the steps in registration?
> Step 1: Principal Contact of Reporting Entity logs in to e-filing portal
> Step 2: Clicks on Reporting Portal link under “My Account” tab.
> Step 3: Select “Form Type” & “Reporting Entity” category
> Step 4: Enter Reporting Entity & Other users details
> Step 5: Submit the details. For more details refer “Reporting Portal User Guide” in Resources section of Reporting Portal.
> Can Reporting Entity be registered using both PAN and TAN?
> Registration for Form 61A and Form 61 can be done using PAN or TAN. For Form 61B, registration can only be done using PAN. Please note that except Post offices and Property registrar (which do not have a PAN), all other Reporting Entities must register using their PAN. Post offices & Registrar must register using only TAN.
> What is the use of the ‘Manage Principal Officer’ section which appears while logging through e-filing portal?
> Manage principal officer section is required in following scenarios - In case reporting entity does not have a principal officer, and the principal contact wishes to add a new principal officer.  In case current principal officer has left the organization and principal contact wishes to change the existing principal officer.
> Who are the Reporting Entity users?
> Principal Officer, Designated Director, Nodal Officer, Alternate Nodal Officer and sub users.
> Who is the Designated Director and Principal Officer?
> As per Explanation 1 to Rule 114E of the Income-Tax Rules, a "Designated Director" means a person designated by the reporting person to ensure overall compliance with the obligations imposed under section 285BA and rules 114B to 114E and includes— (i) the Managing Director or a whole- time Director duly authorised by the Board of Directors if the reporting person is a company; (ii) the managing partner if the reporting person is a partnership firm; (iii)the proprietor if the reporting person is a proprietorship concern; (iv)the managing trustee if the reporting person is a trust; (v) a person or individual, who controls and manages the affairs of the Reporting Entity if the reporting person is, an unincorporated association or, a body of individuals or, any other person. The Designated Director only has the privilege to upload the statement.
"Principal Officer" means an officer designated as such by the reporting entity/ person.
> Can Designated Director and Principal Officer be the same person?
> Yes. The Principal Contact of the Reporting Entity can assign the role of the Designated Director and Principal Officer to the same person.
> Who can add/ remove users to Reporting Entity?
> Only principal officer of reporting entity can add, remove or change other users using the links available in profile section on reporting portal.
> Are there different roles and privileges for different Reporting Entity users?
> Yes, the roles and privileges will determine the kind of access that will be available to the user.
> What are the different roles and their privileges available for Reporting Entity users?
> There are four roles defined for different users of a reporting entity
> 1. Supervisory:
>    View, Add, modify, Delete rights for Registration /Reporting
> 2. Operational:
>    View, Add, Modify, Delete rights for Reporting module
>3. Support:
>    View rights for Reporting Module
> 4. Technical:
>    View rights for Reporting Module
> Does reporting entity need to access e-filing portal every time?
> Reporting entity need to access e-filing portal only for new registration, managing principal officer and submit preliminary response for Form 61A and 61B (in case entity is not registered). For all other reporting related functionalities users of registered reporting entity can directly login to reporting portal.
> Whether the Reporting Entity details and Reporting Entity users’ details needs to be submitted separately?
> No. It is all part of a single registration process.
> Is it necessary to provide details of all the users at the time of registration?
> No. Only Reporting Entity details and Principal Officer details are mandatory at the time of registration to obtain ITDREIN. Other users can be added from the profile section of Reporting Portal later.
> What is ITDREIN?
> Income Tax Department Reporting Entity Identification Number (ITDREIN) is an identification number allotted by the Income Tax Department to a Reporting Entity once the registration process is completed. ITDREIN is to be quoted by reporting entity for reporting any reportable transaction of a specified type. A Reporting Entity may have more than one ITDREIN for each type of reporting obligation.
> What is the format of ITDREIN?
> The ITDREIN is a system generated 16-character identification number in the format XXXXXXXXXX.YZNNN where
 XXXXXXXXXX  PAN or TAN of the Reporting Entity

       Y             Code of Form Code

       Z             Code of Reporting Entity Category for the Form Code

      NNN            Sequence number.

> How many ITDREINs can a Reporting Entity obtain?
> For each unique combination of form type and reporting entity category, a unique ITDREIN could be generated.
> How to obtain ITDREIN?
> Once the registration application for a particular form type and Reporting Entity category is processed and accepted by the Income-tax Department, system will generate the ITDREIN and communicate the same to the Reporting Entity.
> How can Reporting Portal be accessed?
> Step 1: Enter Reporting Portal URL in web browser: https://report.insight.gov.in Step 2: Enter valid credentials provided by Income Tax Department Step 3: Click on Submit
> Who can log into Reporting Portal?
> Users who have been registered as Reporting Entity Users and have obtained a user ID and password can log into the Reporting Portal with the login details.
> What are the credentials required to login to Reporting Portal?
> The User ID required is the PAN of the registered user who is logging into the reporting portal. Please note that the user cannot log in using PAN of a reporting entity. The PAN of the individual user must be entered while logging in.
> How can user retrieve forgotten password?
> User can retrieve password by following methods:
      1. One Time Password (OTP) Based
            a. Over Email
            b. Over SMS
      2. Answer Security Question. In case the issue persists, kindly connect with the helpdesk and raise a ticket for the same.
> Who can add/deactivate Reporting Entity users?
> Principal Officer can Add or Deactivate other users.
> How can users be added to Reporting Entity?
> Step 1: Login to Reporting Portal. Step 2: Go to “Profile” Section. Step 3: Select “Manage Users”. Step 4: Click on “Add Users”. Step 5: Enter user details. Step 6: Click on Submit. For more details refer “Reporting Portal User Guide” in Resources section of Reporting Portal.
> How to deactivate any user?			
> Step 1: Login to Reporting Portal. Step 2: Go to “Profile” Section. Step 3: Select “Manage Users". Step 4: Select the check box corresponding to the sub-user to be deactivated. Step 5: Click on deactivate user button. It is mandatory to have at least one active user (Principal Officer) in Reporting Entity. However, for uploading statements, existence of Designated Director is mandatory. For more details, refer “Reporting Portal User Guide” in Resources section of Reporting Portal.
> Can “Principal Officer” be deactivated?
> It is mandatory to have at least one active user (Principal Officer) for a Reporting Entity. Principal Officer can deactivate other members. However to change the Principal officer, the Principal Contact of Reporting Entity will need to perform the following steps:
 Step 1: Log in to e-filing portal
 Step 2: Go to “My Account” tab and click on “Reporting Portal” link. User will be redirected to
 “Reporting Portal”
 Step 3: Select “Manage Principal Officer” option and click on “Continue”.
 Step 4: select “Form Type” and “ITDREIN” and click on proceed.
 Step 5: Current Principal Officer will be displayed, select the checkbox and click on deactivate
 Step 6: A message is shown “Are you sure you want to Deactivate the Principal Officer”. Click
 “Ok”. A confirmation message for the deactivation is shown.
 Step 7: The user is redirected to Principal Officer details screen where the user can input details for
 the new Principal Officer.
 For more details, refer “Reporting Portal User Guide” in Resources section of Reporting Portal.
> How to deactivate the Designated Director (DD) from a previous Reporting Entity and activate the same with new Reporting Entity?
> The principal officer of any reporting entity can deactivate the other users (other than principal officer) of reporting entity.
 The steps to deactivate any user on Reporting Portal are as follows:
 Step 1: Go to Profile section of Reporting Portal
 Step 2: Click Manage Users > Registered Users on the left sidebar. A list of active registered users
 appears
 Step 3: Select the checkbox against the user you want to deactivate and click Deactivate
 Step 4: The selected user will be deactivated accordingly and the user will be notified by email. The principal officer can use the “Manage Users” section to add more users to Reporting Entity. The
 steps to add a new user are as follows:
 Step 1: Log into the Reporting Portal with Principal Officer’s credentials
 Step 2: Go to Profile section of Reporting Portal
 Step 3: Click Manage Users on the left sidebar and select Registered Users
 Step 4: A list of active registered users appears
 Step 5: Click the Add User button
 Step 6: Enter the user details and click the Submit button to add the relevant user. Login credentials
 will be shared by email.
> Can principal officer update profile of all the users?
> No. The Principal Officer cannot update the profile of other users. The relevant user can only update its own profile. However, Principal Officer will approve the profile change request by other users.
> Who can update the Reporting Entity details?
> Principal officer can update the Reporting Entity details (Address & Contact Details). However information under the basic details tab cannot be changed by the Principal Officer.
> Will Reporting Entity users’ profile change go for verification to income tax Department?
> No. These changes need to be approved by Principal Officer only.
> How can principal officer approve the changes made by other users?
>      Step 1: Reporting Entity User logs in to Reporting Portal
      Step 2: User selects “Profile” section
      Step 3: User selects “Manage Approval” section
      Step 4: User will have list view of pending request for approval
      Step 5: User can do bulk approval by providing comments in text box given
      Step 6: User clicks on “Status” button to view the request detail page
    Step 7: User can approve/reject request by providing reason in given text box.
For more details, refer “Reporting Portal User Guide” in Resources section of Reporting Portal.
> Who will be required to update the address?
> All registered reporting entities will be required to update/confirm their recent address on the address update popup.
> When is reporting entity required to update his address?
Reporting Entity will be required to update the address details on the popup which will appear before welcome page when the user clicks on ‘Proceed’ button after selecting the ‘Authorized Person Type’.
> What are the mandatory fields in update address popup?
> Reporting Entity will need to mandatorily provide following fields in update address popup:
       Flat/Door/Building
       Town/City/District
       Pin Code
       State
       Country
> How many times a reporting entity will be prompted to update the address?
> Address update popup will be displayed to the reporting entity only once after login.
> Can reporting entity ignore the prompt for updating the address?
> Reporting entity will either need to confirm or edit the address after being prompted to update address. Reporting entity will not be able to proceed if address is not confirmed.
> Who will be the user to whom the address update popup will be displayed?
> Principal Officer or the Designated Director will be prompted to update the address through the popup for Form No. 61A and Form No. 61B. Principal Officer will be prompted to update the address through the popup for Form No. 61.
> Can reporting entity modify address once he confirms it on popup?
> Yes, he will be able to modify address through reporting entity address details tab under the profile section.
> What happens when Reporting Entity clicks on the 'Confirm' button without editing the existing address?
If all mandatory fields are present and pin code is provided as per State, reporting entity will be
able to proceed with confirmation, else an error message will be displayed.
> What is Digital Signature?
> A digital signature is an electronic form of a signature that helps in authenticating the identity of the sender of a message or the signer of a document. It also ensures that the message being sent is not modified by an unauthorized party. Digital signatures are easily transportable and cannot be imitated by someone else. As per Explanation to sub-rule 4(a) of Rule 114E, “Digital Signature” means a digital signature issued by any Certifying Authority authorised to issue such certificates by the Controller of Certifying Authorities.
> Which class of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) should be used while signing the XML?
> Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) should be of Class II or III only, issued by CCA approved certifying agencies in India.
> Whose digital signature is required to sign the XML?
> The secured statement package is required to be submitted using a Digital Signature Certificate of following users for relevant Form Type: For Form No. 61- Valid DSC of Principal Officer For Form No. 61A & 61B- Valid DSC of Designated Director
> Is it mandatory to sign the statement XML with the same digital certificate which has been registered with ITD?
> Yes, Reporting Entity is required to register the DSC on Reporting Portal and ensure that the same DSC, which is registered on Reporting portal, is used to sign the secured statement package. Please note that any update in digital signature certificate should be updated on reporting portal also to avoid DSC mismatch issues.
> What are the possible reasons for rejection of statement due to failure of Digital Signature Certificate?
> The possible reasons are as follows:

         Failed Signature Check: System could not validate the digital signature used to sign the
          secured statement package.

          Resolution: Please re-sign the file with the digital signature of the relevant user (Designation
          Director for Form 61A & 61B, Principal Officer for Form 61).

         Signature Not Uploaded: The user has not uploaded the digital signature certificate file on
          the Reporting portal.

          Resolution: Please upload the digital signature certificate file on the Reporting portal.

         Signature Expired: The digital signature certificate has been expired.

          Resolution: Please upload the updated digital signature certificate on the Reporting portal
          by taking a new digital signature from any of the digital signature providers in India as the
          existing certificate is expired.
> Does a user require different passwords for different ITDREIN?
> No. There would be a single user id (PAN of that user) and password for a user for different ITDREIN. At the time of login user will be asked for which ITDREIN it wishes to proceed.
> If a user changes the password, will it be automatically changed for other profiles for the same entity but different ITDREINs?
> Yes, the password is changed for the user profile. Accordingly user will be able to access all ITDREIN (linked to the user profile) of the same entity with the updated password.
> What are the steps to change the password?
 Step 1: Reporting Entity User logs in to Reporting Portal
 Step 2: Selects “Profile” section
 Step 3: Selects “Change Password” section
 Step 4: Enters current password
 Step 5: Enters new password
 Step 6: Confirms new password
 Step 7: Submits the details
 For more details, refer “Reporting Portal User Guide” in Resources section of Reporting Portal.
> What is the legal framework for reporting Statement of Financial Transactions (SFT)?
> Section 285BA of the Income Tax requires specified reporting persons to furnish statement of financial transaction. Rule 114E of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 specifies that the statement of financial transaction required to be furnished under sub-section (1) of section 285BA of the Act shall be furnished in Form No. 61A.
> Who is required to file Statement of Financial Transactions (SFT)?
> As per Rule 114E, following persons are required to furnish statement of financial transactions registered or recorded or maintained by them during a financial year to the prescribed authority.

         Any person who is liable for audit under section 44AB of the Income –tax Act
         A Banking Company
         A Co-operative Bank
         Post Master General of Post office
         A Nidhi referred to in sec 406 of the Companies Act 2013
         A Non-banking Financial Company (NBFC)
         Any Institution issuing Credit Card
         A Company or Institution issuing bonds or debentures
         A Company issuing shares
         A company listed on a recognised stock exchange purchasing its own securities
         A Trustee of a Mutual Fund or such other person authorized by the trustee
         Authorized Dealer, Money Changer, Off-shore Banking Unit or any other person defined in
          FEMA, 1999
         Inspector-General or Sub-Registrar appointed under Registration Act, 1908


> What is the periodicity and due date of furnishing statement of financial transaction?
> The statement of financial transactions (online return in Form No. 61A with digital signature) shall be furnished on or before 31st of May, immediately following the financial year in which the transaction is registered or recorded. Section 285BA (5) empower the tax authorities to issue a notice to a person who is required to furnish a statement as above and who has not filed the statement within prescribed time, requiring person to furnish the statement within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of service of such notice and in such case, the person shall furnish the statement within the time as specified in the notice.
> How can an entity comply with reporting obligation for Form 61A?
> To comply with reporting obligation, the statements (Form 61A) need to be filed by reporting entities in respect of all the transactions of the nature and value as specified in Rule 114E in a prescribed format and within prescribed timeline.
> Who needs to file SFT - 013?
> Any person, whether proprietary concern (Individual) or any other entity, liable for audit under section 44AB, who have received cash payment exceeding two lakh rupees for sale, by any person, of goods or services of any nature need to file SFT - 013 (Cash payment for goods and services). Please note that No Aggregation of transactions is to be done.
> What are the consequences of not furnishing statement of financial transactions or reportable accounts?
> Failure to furnish statement of financial transaction or reportable account will attract a penalty under section 271FA at the rate of five hundred rupees for every day during which such failure continues. As per provisions of section 285BA (5), the prescribed Income-tax authorities may issue a notice to a person who is required to furnish such statement and has not furnished the same in the prescribed time, directing person to file the statement within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of service of such notice and in such case, the person shall furnish the statement within the time specified in the notice. If such person fails to file the statement within the specified time then a penalty of one thousand rupees for every day for which the failure continues, may be levied from the day immediately following the day on which the time specified in such notice for furnishing the statement expires.
> What are the consequences of failure to correct inaccurate or defective statement of financial transaction or reportable account filed?
> As per section 271FAA of the Income-tax Act, if a person who is required to furnish statement of financial transaction or reportable account, provides inaccurate information in the statement, and where:

      (a) the inaccuracy is due to a failure to comply with the due diligence requirement prescribed
          under section 285BA(7) or is deliberate on the part of that person;
      (b) the person knows of the inaccuracy at the time of furnishing the statement but does not
          inform the prescribed income-tax authority or such other authority or agency;
      (c) the person discovers the inaccuracy after the statement is furnished and fails to inform and
          furnish correct information within a period of 10 days as specified under section 285BA(6),

 Then, the prescribed income-tax authority may direct that such person shall pay, by way of penalty,
 a sum of fifty thousand rupees.

> Who is responsible for generating Form 60 Acknowledgement number?
> With reference to the para 8 of instruction No. 1 of 2018 dated 05/04/2018, the Reporting Person/Entity has to generate Form 60 acknowledgement number on its own.
> What is the prescribed format for statement of financial transaction (SFT)?  
> Rule 114E of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 specifies that the statement of financial transaction required to be furnished in Form No. 61A. With reference to the same, the statements uploaded to the Reporting Portal should be in the XML format consistent with the prescribed schema published by the Income-tax Department. The Reporting entities may use the utilities provided by the Income- tax Department or third party utilities for preparation of XML file. For more details refer “Report Generation Utility User Guides” available in “Resources” section of Reporting Portal.
> What is a Statement in relation to Form 61A?
> A Statement is a compilation of reports in prescribed format i.e. in Form 61A of financial transactions specified in Rule 114E.
> How to identify reportable transactions under SFT?
> The first step in preparation of Statement of Financial Transactions (SFT) is to identify transactions/persons/accounts which are reportable under Rule 114E. In the second step, the reporting person/entity is required to submit details of transactions/persons/accounts which are determined as reportable.
> What is aggregation rule?
> Aggregation    rule   needs    to   be   applied   for   specified   transaction   types   to   identify transactions/persons/accounts which are reportable. Rule 114E specifies that the reporting person shall, while aggregating the amounts for determining the threshold amount for reporting in respect of any person –
(a) take into account all the accounts of the same nature maintained in respect of that person during the financial year;
(b) aggregate all the transactions of the same nature recorded in respect of that person during the financial year;
(c) attribute the entire value of the transaction or the aggregated value of all the transactions to all the persons, in a case where the account is maintained or transaction is recorded in the name of more than one person; The aggregation rule is applicable for all transaction types except SFT- 012 (Purchase or sale of immovable property) and SFT- 013 (Cash payment for goods and services).
> What are different parts of Form 61A?
> Form 61A is further divided into statement details and report details. Part A which contains statement level information is common to all transaction types. The report level information has to be reported in one of the following parts (depending of the transaction type):

       Part B (Person Based Reporting)
       Part C (Account Based Reporting)
       Part D (Immovable Property Transaction Reporting)
> What is Person Based Reporting (Part B)?
Part B shall be used for person based reporting which is relevant to following transactions:

       SFT- 001: Purchase of bank drafts or pay orders in cash
       SFT- 002: Purchase of pre-paid instruments in cash
       SFT- 005: Time deposit
       SFT- 006: Payment for credit card
       SFT- 007: Purchase of debentures
       SFT- 008: Purchase of shares
       SFT- 009: Buy back of shares
       SFT- 010: Purchase of mutual fund units
       SFT- 011: Purchase of foreign currency
       SFT- 013: Cash payment for goods and services

For determining reportable persons and transactions, the reporting person/entity is required toaggregate all the transactions of the same nature recorded in respect of the person during thefinancial year (refer to the applicability of aggregation rule). In a case, where the transaction is recorded in the name of more than one person, the reporting person/entity should attribute the entire value of the transaction or the aggregated value of all the transactions to all the persons.The reporting person/entity is required to submit details of persons and transactions which are determined as reportable. The reporting format also enables reporting person/entity to furnish information relating to each individual product within a product type. E.g.: if a person has multiple credit cards and the aggregate value of the transactions in all credit cards exceeds the threshold value, the aggregate transaction value will be reported in section B3 of form 61 A and the transactions pertaining to individual credit cards can be reported in section B4 of form 61 A.
> What is Account Based Reporting (Part C)?
> Part C shall be used for account based reporting which is relevant to following transactions:

          SFT- 003: Cash deposit in current account
          SFT- 004: Cash deposit in account other than current account
          SFT- 014: Cash deposits during specified period (9th Nov to 30th Dec, 2016).

For determining reportable persons and accounts, the reporting person/entity is required to take into
account all the accounts of the same nature maintained in respect of that person during the financial
year and aggregate all the transactions of the same nature recorded in respect of the person during
the financial year (refer to the applicability of aggregation rule). In a case where the account is
maintained in the name of more than one person, the reporting person/entity should attribute the
entire value of the transaction or the aggregated value of all the transactions to all the persons. In
case of SFT- 003 (Cash deposit or withdrawals in current account), the threshold limit has to be
applied separately to deposits and withdrawals in respect of transactions. After identification of
reportable persons and accounts, the reporting person/entity is required to submit details of accounts
which are determined as reportable. Part C of the Form 61A has details of the accounts that need to
be reported along with the aggregate transaction values. Aggregation of transaction has the same
definition as explained in person based accounting.

8. What is Immovable Property Transaction Reporting (Part D)?
Part D shall be used for reporting of purchase or sale of immovable property (SFT- 012). The
reportable immovable property transactions have to be determined by applying the threshold limit.
The reporting person/entity is required to submit specified details of immovable property transactions
which are determined as reportable.

9. What are different Statement types?
One Statement can contain only one type of Statement. Permissible values for type of Statement
are:
          NB – New Statement containing new information
          CB – Correction Statement containing corrections for previously submitted information

                                             Page 42 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




         DB - Deletion Statement for deletion of previously submitted information

         ND - No Data to report

 10. What is the difference between Statement Number and Statement ID?
 Statement Number is a free text field capturing the sender’s unique identifying number (created by
 the sender) that identifies the particular Statement being sent. The identifier allows both the sender
 and receiver to identify the specific Statement later if questions or corrections arise. After successful
 submission of the Statement to ITD, a new unique Statement ID will be allotted for future reference.
 The reporting person/entity should maintain the linkage between the Statement Number and
 Statement ID. In case the correction statement is filed, statement ID of the original Statement which
 is being corrected should be mentioned in the element ‘Original Statement ID’. In case the Statement
 is new and unrelated to any previous Statement, ‘0’ will be mentioned in the element ‘Original
 Statement ID’.

 11. What is original statement ID?
 Statement ID of the original Statement which is being replaced, deleted or referred by reports in the
 current Statement. In case the Statement is new and unrelated to any previous Statement, mention
 ‘0’ in the field “original statement ID”.

 12. What is Report Serial Number?
 The Report Serial Number uniquely represents a report within a Statement. The Report Serial
 Number should be unique within the Statement. This number along with Statement ID will uniquely
 identify any report received by ITD. In case of correction, the complete report has to be resubmitted.
 The Report Serial Number of the original report that has to be replaced or deleted should be
 mentioned in the element ‘Original Report Serial Number’. This number along with Original Statement
 ID will uniquely identify the report which is being corrected. In case there is no correction of any
 report, ‘0’ will be mentioned in the element ‘Original Report Serial Number’.

 13. What is Original Report Serial Number?
 The Report Serial Number of the original report that has to be replaced or deleted. This number along
 with Original Statement ID will uniquely identify the report which is being corrected. In case there is
 no correction of any report, mention ‘0’ in the field “Original Report Serial Number”.

 14. What needs to be captured in Form 61 Acknowledgement No.?
 If reporting person/entity has received declarations in Form 60 in respect of transactions listed in
 Rule 114E, Form 61 is required to be furnished to ITD. As mentioned in Chapter I, on successful
 loading of Form 61 (containing the particulars of Form 60), an Acknowledgement No. would be
 generated which has to be mentioned at the time of filling Form 61A. Hence, unless Form 61 has
 been furnished, Reporting person/entity may face difficulty in filling Form 61A. Accordingly, it is to be
 ensured that Form 61 is furnished to the Department before Form 61A is filled.


5.3       Preparation of SFT using Report Generation Utility
 1. What is a Report Generation Utility?
 Report Generation Utility is a desktop utility based on java. The utility enables user to generate and
 validate XML file which is to be submitted to Income-tax Department.

                                              Page 43 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




2. How to download and install the Report Generation Utility of 61A on a windows
   platform?
The Report Generation Utility can be downloaded from “Resources” section of the Reporting Portal.
The downloaded zip file has to be extracted using WinZip or WinRAR tools.

3. Is any other software required to be installed to use Report Generation Utility of Form
   61A?
Yes. Report Generation Utility requires JRE to run on Windows based operating system. Download
and install JRE version 1.8 Update 101 or later.

4. How to run the Report Generation Utility for Form 61A?
Step 1: Unzip the downloaded utility

Step 2: Click on Form61A.jar file to run the utility.

5. How to Export CSV from the Utility?
Steps to export CSV are:

1. Open 61A utility

2. Select relevant SFT Code

3. Go to Reports Details or Account Details

4. Export CSV and Save

For any further assistance please refer to the "Report Generation Utility Guide-61A" under
“Resources” section of reporting portal.

6. How to prepare a statement using Report Generation Utility of Form 61A?
Step 1: Go to Reporting Portal at https://report.insight.gov.in

Step 2: Download Report Generation Utility from “Resources” section

Step 3: Select the Transaction Type (for Form 61A) on Instructions window

Step 4: Capture Statement Details and other relevant details depending upon the form type

For more details refer “Report Generation Utility User Guides” in Resources section of Reporting
Portal.

7. How to capture data in the Report Generation Utility for Form 61A?
Data can be captured either by data entry or by importing CSV.

8. How to load an existing XML file?
The steps to load an existing XML file are:

    1. Open Report Generation and Validation Utility (For the Form Type corresponding to the XML
       file).
    2. Click on the “Open” button on Report Generation and Validation Utility.
    3. Browse the XML which is to be loaded and click on “OK”.


                                              Page 44 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




9. What date format should be used while filling CSV?
User should use DD-MM-YYYY format while entering data in CSV. If date is entered in incorrect
format, the CSV will not be imported successfully.

10. Can data be saved before generating the XML file in Report Generation Utility for Form
    61A?
Yes. User can save the data using the “Save” button in the tool bar. The data is saved with a draft
extension. To retrieve the saved data in the utility, use the “Open” button from the tool bar.

11. How to capture information for an account with more than one account holder?
For an account with more than one account holder, a user needs to enter multiple record rows, where
account details (including “Report Serial Number”) will be repeated for each account holder. The
utility will automatically create reports with unique Report Serial Number.

12. In Person Based Reporting (Part-B), how to capture details of multiple financial
    transactions (for each distinctive product) by entering details manually in the utility?
To capture details of multiple financial transactions (for each distinctive product), follow the below
mentioned steps:
       Enter the Statement Details (Part A).
       Go to Report details tab (Part B) and enter the Person details (B.1, B.2 and B.3) by clicking
        on Add Row
       To add Financial Transactions Details for the Person, select the relevant row from Report
        Details table and click on Add Financial Transaction.
       Enter the Financial Transactions for the selected record and save.
For detailed steps refer to the “How to capture details of Person Based Report (Part B) for Form No.
61A” quick reference guide.

13. In Person Based Reporting (Part-B), how to capture details of multiple financial
    transactions (for each distinctive product) by importing the details in the utility by using
    CSVs?
To capture details of multiple financial transactions (for each distinctive product), follow the below
mentioned steps:
       Enter the Statement Details (Part A)
       Use Report details CSV to capture Person Details (B.2) and Financial Transaction
        Summary (B.3) along with details of one financial transaction (B.4) and one address
       Use Financial Transaction CSV to capture additional Financial Transactions (B.4) related to
        a single person, excluding the one transaction already entered in Report details CSV
         o   Select the record row for which additional financial transactions are to be populated
         o   Select Financial Transactions from the CSV Type dropdown and click Export.
         o   Save the CSV at a desired location.
         o   The exported CSV will have Report serial number, PAN/ Form 60 Acknowledgement
             prefilled for the record selected in 2.a above.
         o   While filling out the CSV, enter the additional financial transactions in separate rows,
             without changing the Report Serial Number, PAN or Form 60 Acknowledgement for
             any row, for one person.

                                             Page 45 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




         o   Repeat above steps for submitting additional financial transaction details for multiple
             records (Ensure that Report Serial Number, PAN or Form 60 Acknowledgement is
             unique for each person).
         o   Save the CSV and Import the Financial Transaction CSV in the utility using the Import
             button.
For detailed steps refer to the “How to capture details of Person Based Report (Part B) for Form
No. 61A” quick reference guide.
14. In Person Based Reporting (Part-B), how to capture details of multiple address of the
    reported person in utility through CSV?
To capture details of multiple address (for each distinctive product), follow the below mentioned
steps:
       Use Address CSV to capture additional addresses related to a single person excluding the
        one address already entered in Report details CSV
         o   Select the record row for which additional addresses are to be populated
         o   Select Address from the CSV Type dropdown and click Export.
         o   Save the CSV at a desired location.
         o   The exported CSV will have Report serial number, PAN/ Form 60 Acknowledgement
             prefilled for the record selected in 3.a above.
         o   While filling out the CSV, enter the additional addresses in separate rows, without
             changing the Report Serial Number, PAN or Form 60 Acknowledgement for any row,
             for one person.
         o   Repeat above steps for submitting additional address details for multiple records
             (Ensure that Report Serial Number, PAN or Form 60 Acknowledgement is unique for
             each person)
         o   Save the CSV and Import the Address CSV in the utility using the Import button
For detailed steps refer to the “How to capture details of Person Based Report (Part B) for Form
No. 61A” quick reference guide.
15. When to use State Type “XX-state outside India” while submitting address details of a
    person in “Person Based Reporting” in Form No. 61A?
State Type “XX –state outside India” is to be used only when the country type of the person other
than “IN-INDIA”.

16. When to use the fields related to Demonetization?
There are two fields related to Demonetization in Part C of Form 61A- “Amount Credited to account
before Demonetization” (C.3.3) and “Amount Credited to account after Demonetization (C.3.4).”
These fields should only be used for data being filed for Reporting Period 2016-17. For other
Reporting Periods, if any value is entered in these fields, utility will display an exception to the user.

17. In Account Based Reporting (Part-C), how to capture multiple persons details (for each
    person related to account) in utility through CSV?
To capture multiple persons details (for each person related to account), follow the below mentioned
steps:
       Click on Export Part C Template and save the CSV at a desired location.
       Open the CSV file and enter Account Details (C.2) and Account Summary (C.3) along with
        Person Details (C.4) and one address of that person.

                                              Page 46 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




       Please use separate rows for entering Person details (C.4) for each person linked with
        reportable account. Enter the same report serial number and same account details for all
        the persons related to a single account.
       Once the data is entered in the CSV, save the CSV and import the same in utility by using
        the Import CSV Part C details button. The entered data is imported in the utility.
       Click Save to save the details and further, validate the data entered. Click Generate to
        generate the XML.
       Save the XML in desired location and submit the same using steps to submit the statement
        XML.
For detailed steps refer to the “How to capture details of Account Based Report (Part C) for Form
No. 61A” quick reference guide.

18. What are the points to be taken care of while adding multiple person details (for each
    person related to account in Account Based Reporting) in utility through CSV?
While adding multiple person details in Account Based Reporting the following points are to be
taken care of–
       Separate rows are to be used while entering Person details (C.4) for all the persons related
        to a single account and each row (for a single account) should have the same Report
        Serial Number and same account details
       Multiple addresses of same person (if any) can only be added manually through utility after
        importing Part-C CSV.
For detailed steps refer to the “How to capture details of Account Based Report (Part C) for Form No.
61A” quick reference guide.

19. In Immovable property transactions-based reporting (Part-D), how to capture multiple
    person details (for each person related to the transaction) in utility through CSV?
For capturing the details of multiple persons (related to the transaction) in Part D by importing CSV,
follow the below mentioned steps:
       Click on Export Part D Template and save the CSV at a desired location.
       Open the CSV file and enter Transaction Details (D.2) along with Person Details (D.3) and
        one address of that person.
       Please use separate rows for entering Person details (D.3) for each person (Buyer/ Seller
        etc.) related to the transaction. Enter the same report serial number and same transaction
        details for all the persons related to the transaction.
       Once the data is entered in the CSV, save the CSV and import the same in utility by using
        the Import CSV Part D details button. The entered data is imported in the utility.
For detailed steps refer to the “How to capture details of Immovable Property Transaction Based
Report (Part D) for Form No. 61A” quick reference guide.

20. What are the points to be taken care of while adding multiple person details (for each
    person related to a Transaction in Immovable property transactions based reporting) in
    utility through CSV?
While adding multiple person details in Immovable property transactions based reporting the
following points are to be taken care of–
       Separate rows are to be used while entering Person details (D.3) for each person (Buyer/
        Seller etc.) related to a transaction and each row (for a transaction) should have the same
        report serial number and same transaction details.

                                            Page 47 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




       Multiple addresses of same person (if any) can only be added manually through utility after
        importing Part D CSV.
For detailed steps refer to the “How to capture details of Immovable Property Transaction Based
Report (Part D) for Form No. 61A” quick reference guide.

21. What are the Instructions, user has to keep in mind while importing data in CSV through
    copy-paste?
General instructions to keep in mind while importing data in CSV are -
       Ensure there is no blank space before and after the text while importing data in CSV
       Ensure data is not imported in exponential format, while importing data in CSV

22. How to view information after importing CSV of Form 61A?
After successful CSV import, data is visible in the relevant tabs of the utility.

23. What is the average time taken by the utility to import data by CSV?
Average time taken by utility is dependent on different variables (system configuration, number
records, heap memory etc.).
For a pre-defined system configuration, load testing has been done on the utility, and following
were the results:

 Utility Version      File size (MB)        CSV import           Validation time    XML generation
                                            time (hr:mm:ss)                         time
                                                                 (hr:mm:ss)
                                                                                    (hr:mm:ss)

 Version 4.1          30 MB                 00:00:16             00:00:55           00:01:02
                      (1,00,000
                      records)

 Version 4.1          60 MB                 00:01:50             00:04:55           00:05:38
                      (2,00,000
                      records)

System configuration

                                        Windows10Pro or Windows Family
 Operating System
 RAM Size                               4GB

 System Type                            64-bit Operating System

 Processor                              Intel(R) Core i3-7100

 Java JDK                               Version 1.8 64-Bit

Disclaimer: above data is subject to local machine environment and the system configuration. This
should not be used for any conclusion/analysis.




                                              Page 48 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




24. While uploading Form No. 61A, the utility stops responding or displays the error
    message “GC overhead limit exceeded”. How to fix this issue?
This error is being flagged because the system needs more heap memory to upload a CSV file with
more than 2 lakh record.
       Record Count- 1 lakh records in CSV file and 4GB RAM, then
         Heap Memory - System Default memory (512 MB)
       Record Count- 2 lakh records in CSV file and 4GB RAM, then
        Heap Memory- Increase the heap memory up to 1GB. If performance issue still persists,
        keep on adding 512MB on existing heap memory accordingly.




 Records count                      RAM             Heap memory

 1 lakh records in CSV file         4 GB            System Default memory (512 MB)

 2 lakh records in CSV file         4 GB            Increase the heap memory up to 1GB. If
                                                    performance issue still persists, keep on adding
                                                    512MB on existing heap memory accordingly.

25. How to increase heap memory to improve the performance of the system?
Please follow the below mentioned steps to increase heap memory –
       Go the control panel and select Java from Programs
       Java control panel will open. Select Java tab in Java control panel
       Click on “View” to open Java Runtime Environment Settings
       In order to increase the Heap memory, edit “Runtime Parameters”
Enter the following text “Xmx1024m” (Note: 1024 here refers to 1024MB or 1GB)

26. If corrections have to be made only to a statement, keeping reports unchanged, should
    the reports also be submitted along with the corrected statement?
Facility to correct the statement level issues is not provided. Instead of correcting the statement, user
has to submit the Deletion Statement (DB) with all the reports filed in the original statement and
submit a new statement (NB) with correct statement details and relevant reports.

27. Form 61A was uploaded with Statement type “ND” (No Data to Report) and a DQR issue
    was reported on it afterwards. But some reportable data pertaining to this statement was
    received later on the basis of which reporting entity submitted “NB” (New Statement).
    What should be the status of the already issued DQR in this case?
For such scenario, the DQR issued on statement type “ND” (No data to report) will be closed.
However, a new DQR can be generated on the data received in statement type “NB” (New Statement)
during processing of such NB Statement.

28. If the Reporting Entity wants to correct the report details that were wrongly reported,
    what is the corrective procedure?
If Reporting Entities wants to correct any report uploaded earlier, Statement Type “CB” (Correction
Statement) with correct reports can be filed. User must ensure that correct “Original Statement ID
and “Original Report Serial Number” is provided in the correction statement and reports.



                                             Page 49 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




5.4       Preparation of Deletion Statement
 1. What do we understand by statement type “DB” - Deletion Statement for deletion of
    previously submitted statement?
 Reporting entities has been provided with a facility to delete previously submitted reports due to any
 of specific reasons:

         Deleting Reports as they were not required to be reported
         Deleting Reports as they are already reported in other / same statement (Duplicate
          reporting)
         Others

 The Reporting Entity should provide a reason for deletion in the Remarks field if “Others” is selected.

 2. Can a Reporting Entity delete previously submitted information for rectification of
    information provided in reports?
 No, Reporting Entities are advised NOT to use the statement deletion functionality to correct reports
 in a previously submitted information. They are advised to file a Correction Statement (Statement
 type “CB”) in such a scenario.

 3. Which statement is to be referred while deleting reports?
 Original Statement should be referred while deleting the reports . Deletion statement should contain
 only those reports which are to be deleted from original statement.

 4. What are the steps to prepare a deletion statement for Form 61A in report generation
    utility?
 The step-by-step process to generate deletion statement XML is as follows:

      1. Open the Report Generation Utility. Click Open button and browse the original statement
         XML or enter report details in Part B or C or D as applicable.
      2. Note that deletion statement should contain only those reports which are to be deleted from
         original statement. Reports which are not to be deleted from original statement should be
         removed from populated original XML in utility by selecting row and clicking on Delete Row
         to remove such reports from the utility OR alternatively, reports to be deleted from a single
         statement may be entered manually (with all the exact field values submitted earlier in that
         report) one by one by clicking on Add Row in Part B or C or D as applicable, accordingly.
      3. Click the Statement (Part A) tab and from the Statement Type drop-down list, select DB -
         Deletion Statement for deletion of previously submitted information.
      4. Mention the statement ID of the original Statement in the Original Statement ID field from
         which the reports are being deleted.
      5. Mention the Report serial number and the original report serial number for the relevant
         reports.
      6. Click Generate XML on the toolbar to generate the deletion statement’s XML and to prepare
         a secured statement package.




                                             Page 50 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




5. Whether Data Quality Report (DQR) will be generated on Deletion Reports also?
System will reject the reports in deletion statement if the attributes provided in the deletion report do
not match with the original reports’ attributes. Same shall be communicated to reporting entity in data
quality report. Reporting entities need to file a new deletion statement for the reports having issues
as mentioned in DQR.

6. Is partial deletion allowed for already submitted reports for Form 61A?
Yes, Partial deletion is allowed for already submitted reports. Deletion statement should contain only
those reports which are to be deleted from original statement. Reports which are not to be deleted
from original statement should be removed from populated XML in utility by selecting row and clicking
on Delete Row to remove such reports from the utility OR alternatively, reports to be deleted from
a single statement may be entered manually (with all the exact field values submitted earlier in that
report) one by one by clicking on Add Row in Part B or C or D as applicable, accordingly.




                                             Page 51 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




5.5        Validation of SFT using Report Generation Utility
 1. What is the purpose of Statement Validation in Report Generation Utility of Form 61A?
 Validation is a process of applying the data input rules to ensure that the data is in the prescribed
 format. Errors in data entry will be highlighted during the process of validation.

 2. How can a statement be validated in Report Generation Utility of form 61A?
 Step 1: Click on “Validate” button on the tool bar
 Step 2: Utility will display validation errors on “Validation” Tab
 Step 3: Click on Validation row to see details of Validation errors on the right window pane of screen
 Step 4: Click on any particular validation error from list, utility will show the field highlighted in red,
       where corrections can be made
 Step 5: Fix the errors and then click on Validate button again
 Step 6: If there are no validation errors, “Validation Successful” dialog box is displayed to the user.
       In addition, certain validations will be applied by the Income Tax Department at their end.

 For more details refer “Report Generation Utility User Guides” in Resources section of Reporting
 Portal.

 3.   Is it mandatory to validate the statement?
 Yes. The statements with validation errors will be rejected in data quality check.

 4. What are various types of validation errors?
 The errors have been classified as mandatory errors, defects and exceptions.

 5. What are mandatory errors?
 Mandatory errors are schema level errors that need to be resolved by user for successful generation
 of XML report. For resolving these type of errors, the data filled should be as per the Form 61A
 schema validation.

 6. What are Statement Level Defects?
 Statement defects are those defects which render the Statement invalid. Statements with defects will
 be rejected and the reporting entity needs to resubmit the statement. The defect codes and the
 corrective actions is detailed in the respective report generation utility user guides. .

 7. What are Report Level Defects?
 Report defects are those defects which render a particular report(s) as defective in the submitted
 statement. A statement may have multiple reports and only reports with defects would be marked as
 defective in the Data Quality Report. The reporting entity needs to correct and submit the reports
 again in the corrected statement. The defect codes and the corrective actions is detailed in respective
 report generation utility user guides.




                                               Page 52 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 8. What are exceptions?
 Exceptions do not result in the statement/report being rejected. The exceptions should be reviewed
 by the reporting person/entities and if any information is available, the reporting entity may provide
 the information. If any defect is noticed, the reporting entity needs to rectify the defect by submitting
 a correction statement.

 9. How to identify validation errors of Form 61A?
 When user clicks on the validate button, validation summary is displayed in the Validation Error tab.
 On selecting a particular row on the validation error screen, error details are displayed on the section
 on the right side. On selecting the error, user is directed towards the erroneous field on the screen.

 10. How to rectify validation errors of Form 61A?
 User can navigate to erroneous fields via Validation Error Details section on the right side of the
 screen. Erroneous fields are highlighted in Red and are editable for user to correct.


5.6     Generation of SFT using Report Generation Utility
 1. How to generate and save the statements of Form 61A?
 Step 1: Click on Generate XML button on the toolbar.

 Step 2: If there are no validation errors, user needs to provide the path to save generated XML and
        save the XML.

 2. What is the extension of generated XML file?
 Generated XML file should have ‘.xml’ extension.


5.7     Upload of SFT through Submission Utility
 1. How to download submission utility?
 The submission utility can be downloaded from “Resources” section of the Reporting Portal. The
 downloaded zip file has to be extracted using WinZip or WinRAR tools.

 2. Is any other software required to be installed to use submission utility?
 Yes. Submission utility requires JRE to run on Windows based operating system. Download and install
 JRE version 1.8 Update 101 or later.

 3. How to run submission utility?
 Step 1: Unzip the downloaded utility

 Step 2: Click on Submission_Utility.jar file to run the utility.

 4. How to view and save the digital signature certificate?
 To view and save a digital signature certificate, perform the following steps:

 Step 1: Open Internet Explorer



                                                Page 53 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Step 2: Go to Settings >> Internet Options

Step 3: On the Internet Options pop-up, select the tab Content and then click the button Certificates

Step 4: A list of certificates is displayed on a new pop-up. Select the required certificate and click the
       Export button. Select the location where you want to save the certificate.

Step 5: The Certificate export wizard opens. Click Next to continue on the subsequent screens.

Step 6: On completing the wizard, Export Successful message is displayed.

Step 7: To sign a statement using the exported certificate, use the Submission Utility.

5. What are the steps to digitally sign the generated XML using submission utility?
Step 1. Go to “Secure XML” tab in submission utility

Step 2. Browse statement XML

Step 3. Click on “Generate Package” button (DSC should be connected to the system through USB
while generating package)

Step 4. A pop-up containing the list of saved digital signatures appears. Select the signature associated
with statement

Step 5. Click on “Sign”

Step 6. Enter the DSC user PIN

Step 7. Save the package. Secure statement package will be saved in defined name template (Form
Type_ITDREIN_TimeStamp). User should also not change the default file type (.tar.gz)

6. What is the extension of digitally signed package?
Digitally signed package shall be saved as “.tar.gz” extension.

7. Can digital signature certificate be copied?
A Digital Signature Certificate cannot be used without having a private key. The private key should
always be password-protected and not to be shared over a network.

8. Will the user be allowed to submit a statement if the statement is not signed with a valid
   Digital Signature Certificate?
No, the user will not be able to submit a statement if it is not signed with a valid Digital Signature
Certificate.

9. Who is the signatory authority for signing the statement XML for Form No. 61A?
The secured statement package is required to be submitted using a valid Digital Signature Certificate
of Designated Director.
10. Which class of digital signature certificate (DSC) should be used while signing the XML?
Digital signature certificate (DSC) should be of Class II or III only, issued by CCA approved certifying
agencies in India.




                                             Page 54 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 11. Is it mandatory to sign the statement XML with the same digital certificate which has been
     registered with ITD?
 Yes, Reporting Entity is required to register the DSC on Reporting Portal and ensure that the same
 DSC, which is registered on Reporting portal, is used to sign the secured statement package. Please
 note that any update in digital signature certificate should be updated on reporting portal also to avoid
 DSC mismatch issues.

 12. What are the steps to submit the statement through submission utility?
 Step 1: Go to “Statement >> Statement Upload” tab in submission utility

 Step 2: Enter user name and password

 Step 3: Select the form type to be uploaded and enter “ITDREIN”

 Step 4: Select SFT code (Only for form type 61A), “Reporting Period Ending On” & “Type of Filing”

 Step 5: Enter original statement id (only in case correction statement is being filed)

 Step 6: Attach the report and Click on “Validate”

 Step 7: If no manifest error displayed, “Upload” button will be displayed.

 Step 8: Click on “Upload”

 13. Can DQR be downloaded through submission utility?
 Yes, DQR can be downloaded through submission utility.


5.8     Upload of SFT on Reporting Portal
 1. What are the steps to submit a Form 61A statement at reporting portal?
 Step 1: Once statement XML is generated, sign and encrypt the XML using the Submission utility and
       prepare secure statement package to be uploaded (Refer submission utility user guide).

 Step 2: Go to “File Statement” section under “Statements” tab.

 Step 3: Fill out the “Upload Statement” form (Depending upon Form 61, 61A, or 61B; the fields may
        differ).

 Step 4: Select the relevant option from the “Type of Filing” from drop-down

 Step 5: Enter original statement id (only in case correction statement is being filed).

 Step 6: Attach the report and Click on “Validate.”

 Step 7: If no manifest error is shown, click on displayed “Upload” button.

 Step 8: Upon successful submission, an email with “Acknowledgment Number” will be sent to the
 registered email id.

 For more details, refer “Report Generation User Guide-61A”, “Reporting Portal User Guide” in
 Resources section of Reporting Portal.




                                              Page 55 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




2. Who can submit the 61A statement?
Only Designated Director of Reporting Entity can submit the statement.

3. What are the different manifest level errors which should be taken care of at the time of
   statement upload?
Following manifest level errors should be checked and rectified at the time of statement upload:

    1. ITDREIN should be valid and must be in correct format.
    2. ITDREIN in the statement must match with the ITDREIN mentioned on Portal while
       uploading the statement.
    3. Selected Form should match with the actually prepared Form (61,61A or 61B).
    4. The original statement ID mentioned in the Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)/
       Deletion statement (Statement Type “DB”) must match with the statement ID of the Original
       Statement (Statement Type “NB”).
    5. The reporting period mentioned in statement must be related to Reporting Period selected on
       Portal while uploading the statement.
    6. The reporting period in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)/ “DB” (Deletion
        Statement) must match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type
       “NB”).
    7. In case statement type is “ND”, value of “Number of Reports” field should be 0.
    8. In case statement type is “NB”, value of “Number of Reports” field should be greater than 0.

Please refer “Report Generation Utility User Guide” for more details about manifest, file and report
level validations errors.

4. What are the different file level errors which should be taken care of at the time of
   statement upload of Form 61A?
Following file level errors should be checked and rectified at the time of statement upload:

    1. Secured statement package should be properly encrypted using digital certificate
    2. Secured statement package should be properly compressed.
    3. Secured statement package must be signed by            valid digital signature which should be
       registered with ITD
    4. Secured statement package should be free of any threats
    5. Secured statement package should be free from any viruses
    6. Secured statement package should be as per the schema guide (refer Schema validation
        section)

Please refer “Report Generation Utility User Guide” for more details about manifest, file and report level
validations errors.




                                             Page 56 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




5.9     Preparation of Control Sheet (Form-V)
 1. Who are the relevant Reporting Entities to use Control Sheet tab (Form-V)?
 This facility is applicable for Post Master General or a Registrar or Sub-registrar or an Inspector
 General. Other Reporting Entities should not use this tab. Any Reporting Entity, other than the entities
 mentioned above should not use the control sheet (Form –V) functionality. Refer Notification No. 3 of
 2018 of CBDT.
 2. In what scenario, the control sheet (Form –V) functionality can be used by reporting
    entities?
 Control Sheet (Form -V) is applicable when Reporting Entity is exercising the option to furnish the
 statement (Form 61A) in a computer readable media along with verification in Form-V on paper (offline
 mode).

 3. Control Sheet tab is applicable to which Statement of Financial Transaction (SFT)?
 Control sheet is required when statement is submitted in offline mode. According to Notification No. 3
 of 2018 of CBDT this option can be exercised by Post Master General or a Registrar or Sub-registrar
 or an Inspector General. Accordingly any SFT filed by these Reporting Entities can be submitted offline
 with the Control Sheet (Form-V).
 4. How to populate and print control sheet (Form-V)?
 To prepare the Control Sheet (Form-V) using the 61A utility, perform the following steps:

      1. Under Statement (Part A) tab, enter the statement details manually or load an existing XML to
         utility by clicking the Open button and selecting the XML.
      2. After information is uploaded in the utility, click the Print Control Sheet tab.
      3. On scrolling down the Print Control Sheet view, the user can see the Populate button. Click
         this button to replicate the information from Statement Details tab to the Print Control Sheet
         tab.
      4. In the fields available right above the Populate and Print buttons, enter the required user
         details.
      5. Once details are entered, click the Print button to take a printout of the control sheet (Form-
         V).

 5. What is the procedure to submit Form 61A offline through TIN facilitation centre (TIN-FCs)
    with Form-V?
 The Reporting Entity has to furnish the statement in a computer readable media along with verification
 in Form-V on paper to the TIN-FCs. TIN-FC validates the submitted statement and provides an
 acknowledgement of receipt of such statement, if such validation is passed.

 6. Whether there is any separate utility to generate control sheet (Form-V) for offline
    submission of Form 61A (Related to SRO and Post office)?
 No, there is no separate utility to print the control sheet. There is single utility for Form 61A which also
 have Print control sheet tab to print the control sheet by relevant Reporting Entities.




                                               Page 57 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




5.10        SFT Preliminary Response
 1. What is SFT Preliminary Response and how is it relevant to Reporting Entities?
 Preliminary response for Form No. 61A can be submitted by the Reporting Entities to indicate whether
 they have a liability to file SFTs for the reporting period. Reporting Entity may select any of the following
 option for each SFT code:

           Yes (Liable to file statement and having reportable transactions)
           Nil Transactions (No transaction to report)
           Not Applicable (Not liable to file statement)

 2.    Can both types of Reporting Entities, registered & unregistered submit SFT Preliminary
       Response for Form No. 61A?
 Yes, both types of Reporting Entities, registered & unregistered can submit SFT Preliminary Response
 for Form No. 61A

 3. How can an unregistered Reporting Entity submit SFT Preliminary Response for Form No.
    61A?
 Following Steps to be followed to submit Preliminary Response for unregistered Entities:
       1.   Login to e-filing portal
       2.   Select “My Account” tab
       3.   Select “Reporting Portal (Beta Version)”
       4.   Select “SFT Preliminary Response” from option displayed
       5.   Select relevant response from drop down in front of each SFT
       6.   Submit

 4. How can a registered Reporting Entity (Entity which has obtained ITDREIN for a particular
    Form type and entity category) submit SFT Preliminary Response for Form No. 61A?
 Following Steps to be followed to submit SFT Preliminary Response for registered Entities:

       1.   Log in to Reporting Portal
       2.   Go to “Profile” section
       3.   Click on “SFT Preliminary Response”
       4.   Select relevant response from drop down in front of each SFT
       5.   Submit

 5. For which reporting period, Reporting Entities can submit SFT preliminary response for
    Form No. 61A?
 Reporting entities can submit the SFT preliminary response for the financial year corresponding to the
 reporting period. For example, for the reporting period 2017-18 (last of submission 31st May 2018),
 reporting entities need to submit preliminary response for financial year 2017-18.


5.11        Data Quality Report (DQR) for Form 61A
 1. What is Data Quality Report (DQR)?
 The Data Quality Report contains details of the data quality errors/issues present in the statement (and
 reports) submitted by the Reporting Entity. DQR helps Reporting Entity(s) in identifying the errors in
 data submitted. There are two type of DQRs which is generated after submission of statements:

       a) Statement DQR


                                               Page 58 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




    b) Consolidated Defect DQR

2. Why is Data Quality Report (DQR) required?
The report cannot be considered accurate if there are data quality errors. It is mandatory for Reporting
Entities to file accurate reports in the prescribed formats as per law. Failure to comply with the
provisions of law may attract penal provisions.

3. What is Statement DQR?
It is the Data Quality Report specific to the particular submitted statement against which it is visible and
will not be updated post submission of a correction/ deletion statement on the original statement.

4. How to download Statement Data Quality Report?
The Reporting Entity can download the Statement Data Quality Report from both Reporting Portal and
Generic Submission Utility.
The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal are:
   Step 1: Login to Reporting Portal.
   Step 2: Click on “Uploaded Statements” tab under “Statements” module.
   Step 3: In “Uploaded Statements” tab, under the column Statement DQR, click on the download
   icon under XML/Summary PDF to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.
The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Generic Submission Utility are:
   Step 1: Open the Generic Submission Utility.
   Step 2: Select Download DQR option under Statement tab.
   Step 3: Enter the authentication details (User Id and Password) and Statement Id for which the
   user needs to download the DQR.
   Step 4: Click on Download DQR to download the DQR XML.

5. What is Consolidated Defect Data Quality Report?
It is the Data Quality Report that displays defects in the original statement which are still pending for
resolution. The submitted correction/ deletion statement (if any) is also considered for generating this
DQR.
6. How to download Consolidated Defect Data Quality Report?
The Reporting Entity can download the Consolidated defect Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.
The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal are:
Step 1: Login to Reporting Portal.
Step 2: Click on “Original Statements” tab under “Statements” module.
Step 3: Under column Consolidated Defect DQR, click on download icon under XML/ Summary PDF
to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.
It is to be noted that post submission of a correction/ deletion statement of the original statement,
Consolidated Defect DQR XML will be generated. Subsequent correction statements can be prepared
using the Consolidated Defect DQR XML.
7. What should be Reporting Entity’s next course of action after receiving DQR?
Step 1: Check if there are any statement level defects in the submitted statement.
Step 2: Any statement with statement level defects will be rejected and the reporting person/ entity
needs to resubmit the statement.


                                              Page 59 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Refer to the quick reference guide “How to submit Correction and Deletion Statement” to file a deletion
statement.
Step 3: If there are no statement level defects, check for report level defects and exceptions in the
submitted statement.
Step 4: File a correction statement (Statement Type as “CB”) to rectify the report level defects and
exceptions*.
Refer to the quick reference guide “How to submit Correction and Deletion Statement” to file a
correction statement.
Step 5: Once uploaded, check for any further defects/exceptions in the correction statement.
Step 6: In case there are any further errors, file another correction statement to rectify them.


*The Reporting Person/Entity may file a correction statement to rectify the report level exceptions
8. How to import DQR XML in utility of Form 61A?
The steps to import DQR in report generation utility is as follows:

    1. Download DQR in ZIP format from the reporting portal. Unzip the file to extract the DQR in
       XML form.
    2. Click View DQR on the report generation utility toolbar.
    3. On the Import DQR Window, click the Browse button against Import DQR Reports to find and
       upload the required DQR file. Next, click the Browse button against Import Statements to find
       and upload the Statement XML being corrected.
    4. Click OK.

9. What is Data Quality Summary Report?
The data quality summary report of a statement contains all the data quality errors in the statement. It
also contains the issue description and the corrective action required from the Reporting Entity.

10. What is DQR CSV?
DQR CSV is a CSV file having consolidated list of reports with issues (defect/ exceptions). Only the
key fields of such reports (reports having at least one defect/ exception) are provided. DQR CSV can
be downloaded from report generation utility after the successful import of DQR XML.

11. How to download DQR CSV for Form 61A?
At the time of importing DQR in report generation utility, (after user clicks OK), a pop-up appears that
provides the option to download the DQR in CSV format. User can select option whether to download
the DQR CSV for reports having only defects, or both defects and exceptions.

12. What is Report Requiring Correction (RRC)?
RRC stands for Report Requiring Correction. It is a field that will display the number of reports which
are yet to be rectified in original statement. RRC field and count can be viewed under “Original
Statements” tab on reporting portal. Reporting entity need to ensure to reduce RRC (Report Requiring
Correction) count to zero by rectifying all the defective reports.
13. How to file a Correction Statement (CB) for Form 61A?
In order to file a correction statement, the Reporting Entity needs to follow the below mentioned steps:
Step 1: Open the Report Generation utility and click View DQR on the utility toolbar.
Step 2: Import the original statement XML, which is to be corrected and the corresponding Statement
Data Quality Report XML.

                                             Page 60 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Step 3: Click OK. A message is displayed stating that the relevant XML has been imported successfully.
Step 4: The reports from the statement that contain errors (defects/ exceptions) are displayed on the
utility.
Step 5: The respective errors from each report are highlighted in the Validation Error Details sidebar.
Step 6: The user has to select each validation issue and make the required changes.
Step 7: Click on Statement (Part A) tab.
Step 8: The Part A details are pre-filled with Statement Type as CB-Correction Statement containing
correction for previously submitted information and original statement ID of the original statement
whose reports are being corrected.
Step 9: The reporting person/entity needs to re-check these fields and fill other details as required in
Part A before generating the correction statement XML.
Step 10: Click Generate XML on the toolbar to generate the correction statement’s XML.
Step 11: Prepare a secured statement package using the Generic Submission Utility and submit the
correction statement on Reporting Portal.
Redo the above steps till there are no defects in the submitted statement.
Note: Post submission of a correction/ deletion statement of the original statement, Consolidated
Defect DQR XML will be generated. Subsequent correction statements can be prepared using the
Consolidated Defect DQR XML.

14. What is Incorrect ITDREIN (40010) in Form 61A?
Incorrect ITDREIN (40010) issue arises when ITDREIN in the statement does not match with the
ITDREIN mentioned on portal while uploading the statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement using the correct ITDREIN to correct this issue.

15. What is Incorrect Form Name (40020) in Form 61A?
Incorrect Form Name (40020) issue arises when Incorrect Form name is entered while uploading the
statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with Form Name as Form 61A to correct this issue.
16. What is Incorrect Original Statement ID for CB (40030) in Form 61A?
Incorrect Original Statement ID for CB (40030) issue arises when the original statement ID mentioned
in the Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does not match with the statement ID of the Original
Statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct original statement ID to correct this issue.
17. What is Incorrect Original Statement ID for DB (40031) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the original statement ID mentioned in the Deletion statement (Statement Type
“DB”) does not match with the statement ID of original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct original statement ID to correct this issue.

18. What is Inconsistent Statement Type ND for submitted reports (40040) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when Statement type is “ND” for a statement where number of reports is greater than
0.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with corrected statement type or number of reports to
resolve this issue.



                                             Page 61 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




19. What is Inconsistent Statement Type NB for nil reports (40041) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when Statement type is “NB” for a statement where number of reports is 0.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with corrected statement type or number of reports to
resolve this issue.
20. What is Inconsistent Statement Type (40042) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the statement type selected while uploading the statement does not match with
the statement type mentioned in the statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with same statement type as selected on portal to resolve
this issue.

21. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for new statement (40050) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when Original statement ID is not 0 for a new statement (NB).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement (statement type “NB) with original statement ID as 0 to
resolve this issue.

22. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for No Data statement (40051) in Form 61 A?
This issue arises when Original statement ID is not 0 for a new statement with no data to report (ND).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement (statement type “ND) with original statement ID as 0 to
resolve this issue.

23. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for NB (40060) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“NB”.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.

24. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for ND (40061) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“ND”
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.
25. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for CB (40062) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when Reason for correction is “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type “CB”
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction other than “N” to resolve this
issue.
26. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for DB (40063) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“DB”
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.
27. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for NB & ND (40070)?
This issue arises when the Reporting Period mentioned in statement does not relate to Reporting
Period selected on Portal while uploading the statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement for same reporting period which is selected on portal to
resolve this issue.




                                            Page 62 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




28. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for CB (40071) in Form 61A?

This issue arises when the reporting period in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does not
match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the correction statement (statement type “CB”) with same reporting period
as mentioned in the original statement which the reporting entity is trying to correct to resolve this issue.

29. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for DB (40073) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the reporting period in Deletion statement (DB) does not match with the
reporting period of the original statement (NB).
Reporting entity shall submit the deletion statement (statement type “DB”) with same reporting period
as mentioned in the original statement to resolve this issue.
30. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for Form No. 61A (40075)?
This issue arises when reporting period mentioned in "NB" (New Statement)/ “ND” (No Data to Report)
statement is not a valid reporting period.
Reporting period of the submitted statement should not be before financial year 2016-17 and after the
last completed reporting period.
Reporting entity shall submit statement within the valid range of reporting period to resolve this issue.

31. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for SFT – 014 for Form No. 61A (40076)?
This issue arises when reporting period mentioned in "NB" (New Statement)/ “ND” (No Data to Report)
statement filed for SFT-014 is not a valid reporting period.
Reporting entity shall furnish SFT-014, only for the Reporting Period 2016-17 to resolve this issue.

32. What is Inconsistent SFT code for CB (40080)?

This issue arises when the SFT Code in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does not match
with the SFT Code of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the correction statement (statement type “CB”) with same SFT code as
mentioned in the original statement which the reporting entity is trying to correct to resolve this issue.
33. What is Inconsistent SFT code for DB (40081)?

This issue arises when the SFT Code in Statement Type “DB” (Deletion statement) does not match
with the SFT Code of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the deletion statement (statement type “DB”) with same SFT Code as
mentioned in the original statement to resolve this issue.
34. What is Inconsistent SFT code (40082)?

This issue arises when the SFT Code selected while uploading the statement does not match with the
SFT code mentioned in the statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with same SFT Code as mentioned on portal to resolve this
issue.
35. What is Inconsistent SFT code with respect to part submitted (40083)?

This issue arises when The SFT Code mentioned in the submitted statement does not match with the
Part (Part-B/ C/ D) submitted.
Reporting entity shall submit statement which matches with the Part (Part-B/ C/ D) submitted to resolve
this issue.



                                              Page 63 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




36. What is Inconsistent Report type - AF (40090)?

This issue arises when the Report Type “AF” (Aggregated Financial Transactions) does not match with
the SFT code of the submitted statement. Report type “AF” is applicable for SFT-001, SFT-002, SFT-
005, SFT-006, SFT-007, SFT-008, SFT-009, SFT-010, SFT-011, and SFT-013.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct report type to resolve this issue.

37. What is Inconsistent Report type – BA (40091)?

This issue arises when the Report Type “BA” (Bank/Post Office Account) does not match with the SFT
code of the submitted statement. Report type “BA” is applicable for SFT-003, SFT-004 and SFT-014.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct report type to resolve this issue.

38. What is Inconsistent Report type - IM (40092)?

This issue arises when the Report type “IM” (Immovable Property Transactions) does not match with
the SFT code of the submitted statement. Report type “IM” is applicable for SFT-012.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct report type to resolve this issue.
39. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for Defective Statement (40101) for Form 61A?
This issue arises when the original statement ID mentioned in the Correction Statement (Statement
Type “CB”) corresponds to the defective statement.
Reporting entity shall always file New Statement (Statement Type as “NB”) for correcting the defective
statement.
40. What is Failed Decryption (50002) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the file received from reporting portal is decrypted.
Reporting entity shall encrypt the file with a valid key and resubmit the file.
41. What is Failed Decompression (50003) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the file received from reporting portal is decompressed.
Reporting entity shall compress the file and resubmit the file.

42. What is Failed Signature Check (50004)?
This issue arises when the digital signature on the received file is not valid.
Reporting entity shall re-sign the file with the valid Digital Signature of the Designated Director.
43. What is Failed Threat Scan (50005) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the file contains any threats & viruses.
Reporting entity shall scan the file for threats and viruses, remove all detected threats and viruses prior
to encryption and submit the file.

44. What is Failed Virus scan (50006) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the file contains any viruses.
Reporting entity shall scan the file for threats and viruses, remove all detected threats and viruses prior
to encryption and submit the file.
45. What is Failed Schema Validation (50007) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the received file is not as per the form 61A schema guide (refer Schema
validation section).
Reporting entity shall re-validate the file against the XML Schema, resolve any validation errors and
submit the file.

                                              Page 64 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




46. What is Signature not Uploaded (50021) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the user has not uploaded the digital signature certificate file on the Reporting
portal.
Reporting entity shall upload the digital signature certificate file on the Reporting portal and submit the
file.
47. What is Signature Expired (50022) in Form 61A?
This issue arises when the digital signature certificate has been expired.
Reporting entity shall upload the updated digital signature certificate on the Reporting portal as the
existing certificate is expired.

48. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in CB (61A_98000)?

This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number for Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)
does not match with the report serial number as mentioned in the Original Statement (Statement Type
“NB”) submitted earlier.

49. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in DB (61A_98002)?

This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number for Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement)
does not match with the report serial number as mentioned in the Original Statement (Statement Type
“NB”) submitted earlier.
50. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in CB after Deletion (61A_98003)?

This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number mentioned in Statement Type “CB” (Correction
Statement) corresponds to the report already deleted.

51. What is Duplicate Report Serial Number (61A_98004)?

This issue arises when Duplicate Report Serial Number provided within a statement.

52. What is Duplicate Original Report Serial Number (61A_98005)?

This issue arises when Duplicate Original Report Serial Number is provided within a statement in case
the Statement Type is “CB” (Correction Statement) & “DB” (Deletion Statement).

53. What is Blank Customer ID (61A_98010)?

This issue arises when Customer ID is not provided for reports filed under SFT-003, SFT-004, SFT-
005, SFT-006, SFT-010, SFT-011 and SFT-014. It may be provided, if available.
54. What is Blank Father’s Name for individual without PAN (61A_98020)?

This issue arises when Father’s Name is blank and PAN is not provided. Father’s Name is mandatory
if PAN is not provided.
55. What is No PAN (61A_98030)?

This issue arises when PAN is not provided for person who has neither submitted Form 60 or who is
exempted under Rule 114B. This defect can be resolved by either providing PAN or selecting person
type as IE, HE, LE or GO (as applicable) or by providing the Form 60 acknowledgement number.
This rule is not applicable on the person(s) reported in Part-C (Account Based Reporting) other than
“First/ Sole Account Holder.”




                                             Page 65 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




56. What is Invalid PAN (61A_98031)?

This issue arises when there is Invalid PAN (not in valid format/ does not match with the PAN
database).
PAN should be of format: CCCCCNNNNC; where C denotes the alphabets and N is numeric.
This defect can be resolved by either providing correct PAN or selecting person type as IE, HE, LE or
GO (as applicable) or by providing Form 60 acknowledgement number.
This rule is not applicable on the person(s) reported in Part-C (Account Based Reporting) other than
“First/ Sole Account Holder”.
57. What is Modified PAN (61A_98032)?

This issue arises when Valid PAN/ PAN(s) has been changed (added/deleted) in Statement Type “CB”
(Correction Statement). The modification in PAN may be verified and if it was not intended, correction
statement may be filed again.

58. What is Duplicate PAN in person-based reporting (61A_98033)?

This issue arises when details for same PAN (B.2.6) is reported more than once in same statement.
As “Part B” relates to Person based reporting, the information has to be aggregated at PAN level.
Presence of duplicate PAN in Part B is considered as duplicate reporting.

59. What is No PAN – other than First account holder (61A_98036)?

This issue arises when PAN is not provided for person who has neither submitted Form 60 or who is
exempted under Rule 114B.

60. What is Invalid PAN – other than First account holder (61A_98037)?
This issue arises when Invalid PAN (PAN not in valid format/ does not match with the PAN database)
is provided for person who is not the “First/ Sole Account Holder”.
PAN should be of format: CCCCCNNNNC; where C denotes the alphabets and N is numeric.

61. What is Invalid Aadhaar Number (61A_98040)?

This issue arises when Invalid Aadhaar Number format (12 digits) is provided in the report.
62. What is Wrong Aadhaar Number (61A_98041)?

This issue arises when Wrong Aadhaar Number is provided in the report.
63. What is Failed Form 60 Acknowledgment Number for no PAN case (61A_98050)?


This issue arises when Form 60 acknowledgement number is not provided for the cases where Person
Type is selected as “IE” (Individual without PAN which has submitted Form 60 or who is exempted
under Rule 114B) or “HE” (HUF without PAN which has submitted Form 60).
64. What is Failed Identification Type for no PAN case (61A_98060)?


This issue arises when Identification type is not provided and PAN is also not provided.

65. What is Failed Identification Number for no PAN case (61A_98061)?


This issue arises when Identification number is not provided and PAN is also not provided.



                                           Page 66 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




66. What is Failed DOB/DOI for no PAN case (61A_98070)?

This issue arises when Date of birth/ incorporation is blank and PAN is not provided.
67. What is Failed Date of Birth Range (61A_98072)?

This issue arises when Date of birth is not in valid range (for individual) and PAN is not provided/ Invalid
PAN provided.
Valid date of birth range = from 01.01.1900 to end of reporting period.

68. What is Failed Address type (61A_98090)?

This issue arises when No value/ incorrect value is reported in “Address Type”.

69. What is Invalid Postal code – India (61A_98092)?
This issue arises when Invalid postal code is provided when country selected is India.
70. What is Wrong Postal code – India (61A_98093)?

This issue arises when Wrong postal code is provided when country selected is India.
Pin code provided should be linked to state and locality.

71. What is Insufficient Address (61A_98094)?

This issue arises when Address appears to be Insufficient /incomplete.
72. What is Failed Mobile No - India (61A_98100)?

This issue arises when Incorrect mobile number format is provided when country selected is India. It
should be 10 digit mobile Number and should start from 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9
73. What is failed Mobile No - Outside India (61A_98101)?

This issue arises when Incorrect mobile number format is provided when country selected is outside
India. Maximum 15 digits are allowed.

74. What is failed Contact details (61A_98102)?
This issue arises when No Contact details are provided in the person details.
75. What is failed Product type (61A_98110)?

This issue arises when Details related to Product type are not provided.
76. What is inconsistent Product type (61A_98111)?

Product type is not consistent with the SFT Code.
Accordingly, Product Type should be consistent to SFT code selected in following manner:
BD - Bonds or Debentures (SFT-007)
CC- Credit Card (SFT-006)
DD – Bank draft or pay order or banker's cheque (SFT-001)
PI – Prepaid Instrument (SFT-002)
FC - Foreign Currency sale (SFT-011)
MF - Mutual Fund (SFT-010)
SI – Shares issued (SFT-008)
SB – Shares bought back (SFT-009)

                                              Page 67 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




TD - Time Deposit (SFT-005)
ZZ – Others (SFT-013)
XX – Unspecified (SFT-013)
77. What is failed reporting of aggregate gross amount received from the person
    (61A_98120)?
This issue arises when No data is reported for the field “Aggregate gross amount received from the
person”.
78. What is aggregate gross amount received is less than amount received in cash
    (61A_98121)?
This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount received from the person (B.3.2) is less than
Aggregate gross amount received from the person in cash (B.3.3).

79. What is aggregate gross amount received is less than product level aggregation
    (61A_98122)?
This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount received from the person” (B.3.2) is less than the
sum of “Aggregate gross amount received from the person” (B.4.3).
80. What is exceptional gross amount received from the person (61A_98123)?


This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount received from the person (B.3.2) is reported greater
than 100 crores.
81. What is modification in aggregate gross amount received from the person (61A_98124)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount received from the person” has been changed in
Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement).
82. What is failed reporting of aggregate gross amount received from the person in cash
    (61A_98130)?
This issue arises when No data is reported for the field “Aggregate gross amount received from the
person in cash”.

83. What is aggregate gross amount received in cash is less than product level aggregation
    (61A_98131)?
This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount received from the person in cash” (B.3.3) is less than
the sum of “Aggregate gross amount received from the person in cash” (B.4.4).
84. What is exceptional gross amount received from the person in cash (61A_98132)?

This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount received from the person in cash (B.3.3) is reported
greater than 100 crores.
85. What is Modification in aggregate gross amount received from the person in cash
    (61A_98133)?
This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount received from the person in cash” has been changed
in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement).
86. What is Aggregate gross amount paid is less than product level aggregation (61A_98140)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount paid to the person” (B.3.4) is less than the sum of
“Aggregate gross amount paid to the person (B.4.5)”

                                           Page 68 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




87. What is Exceptional gross amount paid to the person (61A_98141)?

This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount paid to the person (B.3.4) is reported greater than
100 crores.

88. What is Modification in aggregate gross amount paid to the person (61A_98142)?
This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount paid to the person” has been changed in Statement
Type “CB” (Correction Statement).
89. What is Truncated Account Number (61A_98160)?

This issue arises when Account Number reported is less than 4 digits.
90. What is Invalid Account Number (61A_98161)?

This issue arises when Account Number contains invalid character.
91. What is Modification in Account Number (61A_98162)?

This issue arises when Account number has been changed in Statement Type “CB” (correction
statement).
92. What is Duplicate Account Reporting (Part C) (61A_98170)?
This issue arises when Details for same account (Same Branch Reference Number (C.2.5) +
Account Number (C.2.2)) is reported more than once in same statement. As per Notification No. 3 of
2018 of CBDT, once the accounts to be reported are identified by the aggregation rule, one report
would include details of one account along with the details of account and related persons.

93. What is Failed Branch Address (61A_98180)?

This issue arises when Branch Address is not provided.

94. What is Failed aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash (61A_98190)?


This issue arises when No data reported for the field “Aggregate gross amount credited to the account
in cash”.

95. What is Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash is less than part period
    amount (61A_98191)?
This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash (C.3.1) is less than
Total of Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash from 1st day of April, 2016 to 8th
November, 2016 (C.3.3) and Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash from 9th day of
November, 2016 to 30th day of December, 2016 (C.3.4).

96. What is Exceptional aggregate amount credited in cash - Current account (61A_98192)?


This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash (C.3.1) reported is
greater than 1000 crore for Account type “BC” (Current Account).
97. What is Exceptional aggregate amount credited in cash- Other than current account
    (61A_98193)?
This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash (C.3.1) reported is
greater than 100 crore for Account type other than “BC” (Current Account).

98. What is Modification of gross amount credited to the account in cash (61A_98194)?
This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash has been changed in
Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement).
                                           Page 69 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




99. What is Exceptional aggregate amount debited in cash - Current account (61A_98200)?


This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount debited to the account in cash (C.3.2) reported is
greater than 1000 crore for Account type “BC” (Current Account).
100.   What is Exceptional aggregate amount debited in cash - Other than current account
    (61A_98201)?
This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount debited to the account in cash (C.3.2) reported is
greater than 100 crore for Account type other than “BC” (Current Account).

101.   What is Exceptional aggregate amount credited pre demonetization - Current account
    (61A_98210)?
This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash from 1st day of April,
2016 to 8th November, 2016 (C.3.3) reported is greater than 1000 crore for Account type “BC” (Current
Account).
102.    What is Exceptional aggregate amount credited pre demonetization - Other than
    current account (61A_98211)?
This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash from 1st day of April,
2016 to 8th November, 2016 (C.3.3) reported is greater than 100 crore for Account type other than
“BC” (Current Account).
103.   What is Exceptional aggregate amount credited post demonetization - Current account
    (61A_98220)?
This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash from 9th day of
November, 2016 to 30th day of December, 2016 (C.3.4) reported is greater than 1000 crore for Account
type “BC” (Current Account).

104.    What is Exceptional aggregate amount credited post demonetization - Other than
    current account (61A_98221)?

This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited to the account in cash from 9th day of
November, 2016 to 30th day of December, 2016 (C.3.4)reported is greater than 100 crore (Account
type is other than “BC” (Current Account).

105.    What is No First/Sole Account Holder (61A_98230)?

This issue arises when No person is reported as “F” – (First/Sole Account Holder) under account
relationship (C.4.1) in the reported account under Part-C Form 61A.
106.    What is Nil Transaction Amount (61A_98250)?

This issue arises when Transaction Amount (D.2.4) is not reported in the submitted report.
107.    What is Low Transaction Amount (61A_98251)?

This issue arises when the maximum of Transaction Amount (D.2.4) & Stamp Value (D.2.12) is less
than 30 lakh.
108.    What is Exceptional Transaction Amount (61A_98252)?

This issue arises when Transaction Amount (D.2.4) is more than 1000 crore.
109.    What is Inconsistent Aggregated Transaction Amount - Seller (61A_98253)?


This issue arises when Transaction Amount (D.2.4) is not equal to the sum of Transaction Amount
related to the person (D.3.2) for Transaction Relation “S” (Seller/Transferor).

                                           Page 70 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




110.    What is Inconsistent Aggregated Transaction Amount - Buyer (61A_98254)?


This issue arises when Transaction Amount (D.2.4) is not equal to the sum of Transaction Amount
related to the person (D.3.2) for Transaction Relation “B” (Buyer/Transferee).
111.    What is Modified Transaction Amount (61A_98255)?

This issue arises when Transaction Amount (D.2.4) has been changed in Statement Type “CB”
(correction statement).

112.    What is Blank Property address (61A_98260)?

This issue arises when Property address is not provided in the submitted report.
113.    What is Insufficient Property address (61A_98261)?

This issue arises when Property address appears to be insufficient.

114.    What is Failed Seller/Transferor Transaction relation (61A_98270)?


This issue arises when No person reported with Transaction relation “S” (Seller/Transferor) under
transaction relation (D.3.1).

115.    What is No Buyer/Transferee (61A_98280)?

This issue arises when No person reported with Transaction relation “B” – (Buyer/Transferee) under
transaction relation (D.3.1).
116.    What is Nil transaction amount related to seller (61A_98290)?

This issue arises when Nil Transaction Amount related to the person (D.3.2) where transaction relation
is “S” (Seller/Transferor).
117.    What is Nil transaction amount related to Buyer (61A_98291)?

This issue arises when Nil Transaction Amount related to the person (D.3.2) where transaction relation
is “B” (Buyer/Transferee).

118.   Whether reporting of PAN (D.3.7) is mandatory while submitting Person Details in SFT
    012?
While filing SFT-012, it is mandatory to submit PAN number of Buyer/Seller/other parties related to
the transaction. Defect arises if PAN not provided for person who has neither submitted Form 60 or
who is exempted under Rule 114B.
To resolve the same, reporting entity has to submit the correction statement (Statement type “CB”
with corrected report). User can either provide PAN or select the person type as IE, HE, LE or GO
(as applicable) or provide Form 60 acknowledgement number in the corrected report.

119.   Whether reporting the details of Buyer/Transferee (D.3.1) is mandatory while
    submitting SFT-012?
While submitting details of Immovable property transaction, it is mandatory to provide buyer/
Transferee details. This defect has been raised because no individuals have been reported with
Transaction relation as “B” – (Buyer/Transferee) under transaction relation (D.3.1).


To resolve the same, reporting entity has to submit the correction statement (Statement type “CB”)
with details of buyer/ transferee in the relevant reports.



                                           Page 71 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




120.   Whether reporting the details of Seller/Transferor (D.3.1) is mandatory while
    submitting SFT-012?
While submitting details of Immovable property transaction. It is mandatory to provide Seller/
Transferor details. This defect has been raised because no individuals have been reported with
Transaction relation as “S” (Seller/Transferor) under transaction relation (D.3.1).
To resolve the same, reporting entity has to submit the correction statement (Statement type “CB”)
with details of Seller/Transferor in the relevant reports.
121.   Whether Date of Birth/Incorporation (D.3.1) is mandatorily required to be provided for
    cases where PAN is not provided?
It is mandatory to provide date of birth/ incorporation if PAN has not been reported. This defect can
be resolved by submitting correction statement (Statement type “CB”) with date of birth/ incorporation
(D.3.1) in relevant reports.

122.   What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Statement Type ND for submitted
    reports (40040) in Form 61A?
This exception arises when Statement type is “ND” (No Data to Report) for a statement where number
of reports is greater than 0.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the statement type has been ignored and statement is
considered as “NB” (New Statement).
In case statement type is not “NB” (New Statement), kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement
Type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new ND statement.
123.   What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Statement Type NB for nil
    reports (40041) in Form 61A?
This exception arises when Statement type is “NB” for a statement where number of reports is 0.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the statement type has been ignored and statement is
considered as “ND” (No Data to Report).
In case statement type is not “ND” (No Data to Report), kindly file a new original statement (Statement
type as “NB”) with reports.
124.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Original Statement ID for new
    statement (40050) in Form 61A?
This exception arises when Original statement ID is not 0 for a new statement (NB).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the original statement ID has been ignored and original
statement ID is considered as 0.
In case the statement type is not “NB” (New Statement), kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement
type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
125.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Original Statement ID for No Data
    statement (40051) in Form 61 A?
This exception arises when Original statement ID is not 0 for a new statement with no data to report
(ND).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the original statement ID has been ignored and original
statement ID is considered as 0.
 In case statement type is not “ND” (No data to Report), kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement
type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.




                                            Page 72 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




126.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for NB
    (40060) in Form 61A?
This exception arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement
type “NB”.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N”.
In case reason for correction is not “N”, kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement type as “DB”)
to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
127.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for ND
    (40061) in Form 61A?
This exception arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement
type “ND”
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N”.
In case reason for correction is not “N”, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and
file a new original statement.

128.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for CB
    (40062) in Form 61A?
This exception arises when Reason for correction is “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type “CB”
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “A” (Acknowledgement of original statement had many errors which are
being resolved).
129.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for DB
    (40063) in Form 61A?
This exception arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement
type “DB”
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for deletion has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N” (Not applicable).

130.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for NB & ND
    (40070)?
This exception arises when the Reporting Period mentioned in statement does not relate to Reporting
Period selected on Portal while uploading the statement.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period has been ignored and the reporting done
is considered for the reporting period selected on portal while uploading the statement.
In case statement is not related to the reporting period selected on Portal, kindly use the deletion
functionality to delete the statement and file a new original statement.

131.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for CB (40071)
    in Form 61A?
This exception arises when the reporting period in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does
not match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period of correction statement has been ignored
and the reporting period of the original statement has been maintained. In case the reporting period in
the original statement was incorrect, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and
file a new original statement.



                                             Page 73 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




132.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for DB (40073)
    in Form 61A?
This exception arises when the reporting period in Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement) does not
match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period of deletion statement has been ignored
and the reporting period of the original statement has been maintained. In case the reporting period in
the original statement was incorrect, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and
file a new original statement.
133.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent SFT code for CB (40080)?

This exception arises when the SFT Code in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does not
match with the SFT Code of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the SFT Code of correction statement has been ignored and
the SFT Code of the original statement has been maintained.
In case the SFT code in the original statement was incorrect, kindly use the deletion functionality to
delete the statement and file a new original statement.

134.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent SFT code for DB (40081)?

This exception arises when the SFT Code in Statement Type “DB” (Deletion statement) does not match
with the SFT Code of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the SFT Code of deletion statement has been ignored and the
SFT Code of the original statement has been maintained.
In case the SFT code in the original statement was incorrect, kindly use the deletion functionality to
delete the statement and file a new original statement.
135.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Report type - AF (40090)?

This exception arises when the Report type “AF” (Aggregated Financial Transactions for SFT Codes
001, 002, 005, 006, 007, 008, 009, 010, 011 & 013) does not match with the SFT code of the submitted
statement.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the report type has been ignored and the report type has been
considered as “AF”.
In case report type is not “AF”, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and file a
new original statement.
136.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Report type – BA (40091)?

This exception arises when the Report type “BA” (Bank/Post Office Account for SFT Codes 03, 04 &
14) does not match with the SFT code of the submitted statement.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the report type has been ignored and the report type has
been considered as “BA”.
In case report type is not “BA”, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and file a
new original statement.
137.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Report type - IM (40092)?

This exception arises when the Report type “IM” (Immovable Property Transactions for SFT Code 012)
does not match with the SFT code of the submitted statement.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the report type has been ignored and the report type has been
considered as “IM”.



                                             Page 74 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




In case report type is not “IM”, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and file a
new original statement.
138.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Number of Reports (40100)?
This exception arises when number of reports mentioned in Part A does not match with the actual
number of reports.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the field “number of reports” has been ignored and actual
number of reports is considered as “number of reports”.
In case the actual number of reports is not to be considered, kindly use the deletion functionality to
delete the statement and file a new original statement




                                            Page 75 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




6. Statement of Reportable Accounts (SRA) (Form 61B)

6.1     SRA Reporting Obligation
 1. What is FATCA?
 In 2010, USA enacted a law known as “Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act” (FATCA) with the
 objective of tackling tax evasion through obtaining information in respect of offshore financial
 accounts maintained by USA Residents and citizens The provisions of FATCA essentially provide
 for 30% withholding tax on US source payments made to Foreign Financial Institutions unless they
 enter into an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (US IRS) to provide information about the
 accounts held with them by US persons or entities (Companies/ Firms/ Trusts) controlled by US
 persons.

 2. What is Inter Governmental Agreement (IGA) between India and US?
 The IGA between India and USA was signed on 9th July, 2015. It provides that the Indian Financial
 Institutions will provide necessary information to the Indian tax authorities, which will then be
 transmitted to USA periodically. USA will also provide substantial information about Indians having
 assets in USA.

 3. What are new Global Standards (Common Reporting Standards, CRS) on Automatic
    Exchange of Information?
 To combat the problem of offshore tax evasion and avoidance and stashing of unaccounted money
 abroad, the G20 and OECD countries worked together to develop a Common Reporting Standard
 (CRS) on Automatic Exchange of Information (AEOI). The CRS on AEOI requires the financial
 institutions of the “source” jurisdiction to collect and report information to their tax authorities about
 account holders “resident” in other countries. The reporting needs to be done for a wide range of
 financial products, by a wide variety of financial institutions including banks, depository institutions,
 collective investment vehicles and insurance companies. Such information is to be transmitted
 automatically on yearly basis.

 4. What is the legal framework for reporting Statement of Reportable Accounts (61B)?
 With a view to implement the CRS on AEOI and also the IGA with USA, and with a view to provide
 information to other countries, necessary legislative changes have been made by amending section
 285BA of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Income-tax Rules, 1962 were amended by inserting Rules 114F
 to 114H and Form 61B to provide a legal basis for the Reporting Financial Institutions (RFIs) for
 maintaining and reporting information about the Reportable Accounts.

 5. Who is required to file Statement of Reportable Accounts (61B)?
 An entity needs to find out whether it is a reporting financial institution. Thereafter, reporting financial
 institution needs to review financial accounts held with it by applying due diligence procedure to
 identify whether any financial account is a reportable account. If any account is identified as a
 reportable account, the reporting financial institution shall report the relevant information in Form 61B
 in respect of the identified reportable accounts. For further details, please refer to Third Party
 Reporting Handbook.



                                               Page 76 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




6. Who is a Reporting Financial Institution (RFI)?
Reporting Financial Institution (RFI) is defined in rule 114F (7) to mean:

       A financial institution which is resident in India, but excludes any branch of such institution
        that is located outside India, and
       Any branch of financial Institution (other than a non-reporting financial institution) which is
        not resident in India, if that branch is located in India.

Financial Institutions will not include Non-reporting Financial Institutions even though they satisfy the
above conditions.

7. What are the different Financial Institution Categories?
FI Categories: The definition of Financial Institution in rule 114(F) 3 classifies FIs in four different
category:

   Custodial Institutions - “Custodial Institution” means any Entity that holds, as a substantial portion
    of its business, Financial Assets for the account of others. Entities such as central securities
    depositors (CSDL & NSDL), custodian banks and depositary participants would generally be
    considered as custodial institutions.
   Depository Institutions - A depository institution is a financial institution (such as a savings bank,
    commercial bank, savings and loan associations, or credit unions) that is legally allowed to
    accept monetary deposits from consumers in the ordinary course of a banking or similar
    business.
   Investment Entities – Entity’s primary business consists of trading in money market instruments,
    foreign exchange, exchange, interest rate & index instruments, transferable securities or
    individual & collective portfolio management, investing, administering or managing financial
    asset or money for or on behalf of a customer'.
   Specified Insurance Companies - “Specified Insurance Company” means any Entity that is an
    insurance company (or the holding company of an insurance company) that issues, or is
    obligated to make payments with respect to, a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity
    Contract.
   Others – A Financial Institution not falling under any of the category as mentioned above.

8. What are the Reporting Financial Accounts?
A financial account is an account maintained by a financial institution and includes specific categories
of accounts as discussed in Rule 114F (1). There are broadly five types of financial accounts:
Depository Accounts: “Depository Account” includes any commercial, checking, savings, time, or
thrift account, or an account that is evidenced by a certificate of deposit, thrift certificate, investment
certificate, certificate of indebtedness, or other similar instrument maintained by a Financial Institution
in the ordinary course of a banking or similar business.
Custodial Accounts: The term custodial account means an arrangement for holding a financial
instrument, contract, or investment (including, but not limited to, a share of stock in a corporation, a
note, bond, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness, a currency or commodity transaction, a
credit default swap, a swap based upon a nonfinancial index, a notional principal contract as defined
an insurance or annuity contract, and any option or other derivative instrument) for the benefit of
another person.


Equity and Debt Interest: Equity and debt interests are financial accounts if they are interests in an
investment entity e.g. a capital or profits interest in a firm and any interest held by any person treated
as a settlor or beneficiary of all or a portion of the trust. Where an entity is an investment entity solely

                                              Page 77 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




because it acts on behalf of a customer by investing, managing or administering Financial Assets in
the name of the customer, the debt and equity interest in the investment entity are not Financial
Assets provided it renders only investment advice to, or manages portfolios for, the customer.
Cash Value Insurance Contracts: Insurance contract means a contract under which issuer agrees to
pay an amount upon the occurrence of a Specified contingency involving mortality, morbidity,
accident, liability, or property risk. The term “Cash Value Insurance Contract” means an Insurance
Contract (other than an indemnity reinsurance contract between two insurance companies) that has
a Cash Value greater than US $50,000 at any time during the calendar year.
Annuity Contracts: Annuity contract means a contract under which the issuer agrees to make
payments for a period of time determined in whole or in part by reference to the life expectancy of
one or more individuals.
9. What is a Reportable Account?
A reportable account means an account which has been identified pursuant to the due diligence
procedure, as held by:

            o      A reportable person
            o      An entity, not based in USA, with one or more controlling person that is a specified
                   controlling person.
            o      A passive non-financial entity with one or more controlling persons that is a person
                   described in sub-clause (b) of clause (8) of the rule 114F.

10. Who is a reportable person for Form 61B?
Reportable person has been defined in the Rule 114F(8) and means:-

       One or more specified US persons; or
       One or more persons other than
           o A corporation the stock of which is regularly traded on one or more established
                   securities markets;
            o      Any corporation that is a related entity of a corporation described in item (i);
            o      A Governmental entity;
            o      An International organization;
            o      A Central Bank; or
            o      A financial institution

That is resident of any country or territory outside India (except United States of America) under the
tax laws of such country or territory or an estate of a dependent that was a resident of any country
or territory outside India (except US) under the tax laws of such country or territory.

Thus, generally speaking, there are two types of reportable persons. First one has been defined
specifically for USA. Second one is for other countries.

11. Who is a US person for Form 61B?
US person has been defined in the Rule 114F(10) and means:-

    a) An individual, being a citizen or resident of USA
    b) A partnership or corporation organized in the USA or under the laws of the USA or any state
        thereof;


                                               Page 78 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




    c) A trust if;
           a. A court within the USA would have authority to render orders or judgments on issues
                regarding administration of the trust; or
             b. One or more US persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the
               trust; or
    d) An estate of a descendent who was a citizen or resident of the USA.


12. What is the due diligence procedure?
The RFIs need to identify the reportable accounts for reporting in form 61B by carrying out due
diligence procedures. There are different due diligence procedures for the accounts held by
individuals and accounts held by entities.

For more details please refer separate document “Guidance-Note-For-FATCA-and-CRS-
31.12.2015.pdf, Page 28”.

13. Whether any aggregation rules are applicable while identifying reportable accounts?
For the purpose of determining the aggregate balance or value of financial accounts held by an
individual or entity, a reporting financial institution shall be required to take into account all financial
accounts which are maintained by it, or by a related entity, but only to the extent that the computerized
systems of that reporting financial institution links the financial accounts by reference to a data
element such as client number or taxpayer identification number and allows account balances or
values to be aggregated.

For the purpose of determining the aggregate balance or value of financial accounts held by a person
to determine whether a financial account is a high value account, a reporting FI shall also be required,
in the case of any financial accounts that a relationship manager knows, or has reason to know, are
directly or indirectly owned, controlled or established by the same person, to aggregate all such
accounts.

14. How are joint accounts to be reported?
Where a Financial Account is jointly held, the balance or value to be reported in respect of the
Reportable Person is the entire balance or value of the reportable account. The entire balance or
value should be attributed to each holder of the account.

15. Who is a related entity?
Related entity is defined in Explanation (E) to section 114F (6). An entity is a “related entity” of another
entity if either entity controls the other entity, or the two entities are under common control.

16. How can an entity comply with reporting obligation for Form 61B?
After the Reporting Financial Institution has identified the reportable accounts, Reporting Financial
Institution needs to report specific information in respect of each reportable account as prescribed in
Form 61B.

17. Whether trusts are also required to fulfil reporting obligations?
In the case of trusts, two situations may arise:-

       When trust itself is a reporting financial institution; or

                                              Page 79 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




        When trust is an NFE that maintains a financial account with a reporting financial institution.


18. What are the consequences of not furnishing statement of financial Accounts?
Failure to furnish statement of financial transaction or reportable account will attract a penalty under
section 271FA at the rate of five hundred rupees for every day during which such failure continues.

As per provisions of section 285BA (5), the prescribed Income-tax authorities may issue a notice to
a person who is required to furnish such statement and has not furnished the same in the prescribed
time, directing person to file the statement within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of
service of such notice and in such case, the person shall furnish the statement within the time
specified in the notice.

If such person fails to file the statement within the specified time then a penalty of INR 1000 for every
day for which the failure continues, may be levied from the day immediately following the day on
which the time specified in such notice for furnishing the statement expires.

19. What are the consequences of Failure to correct Inaccurate or defective statement of
    financial account filed?
As per section 271FAA of the Income-tax Act, if a person who is required to furnish statement of
financial transaction or reportable account, provides inaccurate information in the statement, and
where:

    (d) the inaccuracy is due to a failure to comply with the due diligence requirement prescribed
        under section 285BA(7) or is deliberate on the part of that person;
    (e) the person knows of the inaccuracy at the time of furnishing the statement but does not
        inform the prescribed income-tax authority or such other authority or agency;
    (f) the person discovers the inaccuracy after the statement is furnished and fails to inform and
         furnish correct information within a period of 10 days as specified under section 285BA(6),

Then, the prescribed income-tax authority may direct that such person shall pay, by way of penalty,
a sum of fifty thousand rupees.




                                             Page 80 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




6.2       SRA Reporting Format
 1. What is the prescribed format for Statement of Reportable Accounts (61B)?
 Rule 114G (8) of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 specifies that the statement of reportable account
 required to be furnished in Form No. 61B. With reference to the same the statements uploaded to the
 Reporting Portal should be in the XML format consistent with the prescribed schema published by the
 Income-tax Department. The Reporting entities may use the utilities provided by the Income-tax
 Department or third party utilities for preparation of XML file. For more details refer “Report Generation
 Utility User Guides” available in “Resources” section of Reporting Portal.

 2. What is a Statement in relation to Form 61B?
 A Statement is a compilation of reports in prescribed format i.e. in Form 61B containing details of
 reportable accounts specified in Rule 114G.
 3. What are different parts of Form 61B?
 Form 61B has two parts. Part A which contains statement level details and Part B which contains
 Report Details. Part B report details should be provided for each Account being reported.

 4. What are different Statement types?
 One Statement can contain only one type of Statement. Permissible values for type of Statement are:
         NB – New Statement containing new information
         CB – Correction Statement containing corrections for previously submitted information
         DB - Deletion Statement for deletion of previously submitted information
         ND - No Data to report


 5. What is the difference between Statement Number and Statement ID?
 Statement Number is a free text field capturing the sender’s unique identifying number (created by the
 sender) that identifies the particular Statement being sent. The identifier allows both the sender and
 receiver to identify the specific Statement later if questions or corrections arise. After successful
 submission of the Statement to ITD, a new unique Statement ID will be allotted for future reference.
 The reporting person/entity should maintain the linkage between the Statement Number and Statement
 ID. In case the correction statement is filed, statement ID of the original Statement which is being
 corrected should be mentioned in the element ‘Original Statement ID’. In case the Statement is new
 and unrelated to any previous Statement, ‘0’ will be mentioned in the element ‘Original Statement ID’.

 6. What is original statement ID?
 Statement ID of the original Statement which is being replaced, deleted or referred by reports in the
 current Statement. In case the Statement is new and unrelated to any previous Statement, mention ‘0’
 in the field “original statement ID”.
 7. What is Report Serial Number?
 The Report Serial Number uniquely represents a report within a Statement. The Report Serial Number
 should be unique within the Statement. This number along with Statement ID will uniquely identify any
 report received by ITD. In case of correction, the complete report has to be resubmitted. The Report
 Serial Number of the original report that has to be replaced or deleted should be mentioned in the
 element ‘Original Report Serial Number’. This number along with Original Statement ID will uniquely



                                              Page 81 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 identify the report which is being corrected. In case there is no correction of any report, ‘0’ will be
 mentioned in the element ‘Original Report Serial Number’.

 8. What is Original Report Serial Number?
 The Report Serial Number of the original report that has to be replaced or deleted. This number along
 with Original Statement ID will uniquely identify the report which is being corrected. In case there is no
 correction of any report, mention ‘0’ in the field “Original Report Serial Number”.


6.3     Preparation of SRA using Report Generation Utility
 1. What is a Report Generation Utility?
 Report Generation Utility is a desktop utility based on java. The utility enables user to generate and
 validate XML file which is to be submitted to Income-tax Department.
 2. How to download and install the Report Generation Utility of 61B on a windows platform?
 The Report Generation Utility can be downloaded from “Resources” section of the Reporting Portal.
 The downloaded zip file has to be extracted using WinZip or WinRAR tools.
 3. Is any other software required to be installed to use Report Generation Utility of Form
    61B?
 Yes. Report Generation Utility requires JRE to run on Windows based operating system. Download
 and install JRE version 1.8 Update 101 or later.
 4. How to run the Report Generation Utility for Form 61B?
 Step 1: Unzip the downloaded utility

 Step 2: Click on Form61B.jar file to run the utility.
 5. How to prepare a statement using Report Generation Utility of Form 61B?
 Step 1: Go to Reporting Portal at https://report.insight.gov.in
 Step 2: Download Report Generation Utility from “Resources” section
 Step 3: Capture Statement Details and other relevant details depending upon the form type

 For more details refer “Report Generation Utility User Guides” in Resources section of Reporting Portal.
 6. How to capture data in the Report Generation Utility for Form 61B?
 Data can be captured either by data entry or by importing CSV.
 7. How to load an existing XML file?
 The steps to load an existing XML file are:

      1. Open Report Generation and Validation Utility (For the Form Type corresponding to the XML
         file).
      2. Click on the “Open” button on Report Generation and Validation Utility.
      3. Browse the XML which is to be loaded and click on “OK”.


 8. What date format should be used while filling CSV?
 User should use DD-MM-YYYY format while entering data in CSV. If date is entered in incorrect
 format, the CSV will not be imported successfully.


                                               Page 82 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 9. Can data be saved before generating the XML file in Report Generation Utility for Form
    61B?
 Yes. User can save the data using the “Save” button in the tool bar. The data is saved with a draft
 extension. To retrieve the saved data in the utility, use the “Open” button from the tool bar.
 10. How to capture information for an account with more than one account holder?
 For an account with more than one account holder, a user needs to enter multiple record rows, where
 account details (including “Report Serial Number”) will be repeated for each account holder. The utility
 will automatically create reports with unique Report Serial Number.
 11. How to view information after importing CSV of Form 61B?
 After successful CSV import, data is visible in the relevant tabs of the utility.
 12. If corrections have to be made only to a statement, keeping reports unchanged, should
     the reports also be submitted along with the corrected statement?
 Facility to correct the statement level issues is not provided. Instead of correcting the statement, user
 has to submit the Deletion Statement (DB) with all the reports filed in the original statement and submit
 a new statement (NB) with correct statement details and relevant reports.
 13. Form 61B was uploaded with Statement type “ND” (No Data to Report) and a DQR issue
     was reported on it afterwards. But some reportable data pertaining to this statement was
     received later on the basis of which reporting entity submitted “NB” (New Statement).
     What should be the status of the already issued DQR in this case?
 For such scenario, the DQR issued on statement type “ND” (No data to report) will be closed. However,
 a new DQR can be generated on the data received in statement type “NB” (New Statement) during
 processing of such NB Statement.
 14. If the Reporting Entity wants to correct the report details that were wrongly reported, what
     is the corrective procedure?
 If Reporting Entities wants to correct any report uploaded earlier, Statement Type “CB” (Correction
 Statement) with correct reports can be filed. User must ensure that correct “Original Statement ID and
 “Original Report Serial Number” is provided in the correction statement and reports.



6.4       Preparation of Deletion Statement
 1. What do we understand by statement type “DB” - Deletion Statement for deletion of
    previously submitted statement?
 Reporting entities has been provided with a facility to delete previously submitted reports due to any of
 specific reasons:

         Deleting Reports as they were not required to be reported
         Deleting Reports as they are already reported in other / same statement (Duplicate reporting)
         Others

 The Reporting Entity should provide a reason for deletion in the Remarks field if “Others” is selected.




                                               Page 83 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




2. Can a Reporting Entity delete previously submitted information for rectification of
   information provided in reports?
No, Reporting Entities are advised NOT to use the statement deletion functionality to correct reports
in a previously submitted information. They are advised to file a Correction Statement (Statement type
“CB”) in such a scenario.

3. Which statement is to be referred while deleting reports?
Original Statement should be referred while deleting the reports . Deletion statement should contain
only those reports which are to be deleted from original statement.

4. What are the steps to prepare a deletion statement for Form 61B in report generation
   utility?
The step-by-step process to generate deletion statement XML is as follows:

    1. Open the Report Generation Utility. Click Open button and browse the original statement XML
       or enter report details in Part B.
    2. Note that deletion statement should contain only those reports which are to be deleted from
       original statement. Reports which are not to be deleted from original statement should be
       removed from populated original XML in utility by selecting row and clicking on Delete Row to
       remove such reports from the utility OR alternatively, reports to be deleted from a single
       statement may be entered manually (with all the exact field values submitted earlier in that
       report) one by one by clicking on Add Row in Part B, accordingly.
    3. Click the Statement (Part A) tab and from the Statement Type drop-down list, select DB -
       Deletion Statement for deletion of previously submitted information.
    4. Mention the statement ID of the original Statement in the Original Statement ID field from which
       the reports are being deleted.
    5. Mention the Report serial number and the original report serial number for the relevant reports.
    6. Click Generate XML on the toolbar to generate the deletion statement’s XML and to prepare a
       secured statement package.


5. Whether Data Quality Report (DQR) will be generated on Deletion Reports also?
System will reject the reports in deletion statement if the attributes provided in the deletion report do
not match with the original reports’ attributes. Same shall be communicated to reporting entity in data
quality report. Reporting entities need to file a new deletion statement for the reports having issues as
mentioned in DQR.

6. Is partial deletion allowed for already submitted reports for Form 61B?
Yes, Partial deletion is allowed for already submitted reports. Deletion statement should contain only
those reports which are to be deleted from original statement. Reports which are not to be deleted from
original statement should be removed from populated XML in utility by selecting row and clicking on
Delete Row to remove such reports from the utility OR alternatively, reports to be deleted from a
single statement may be entered manually (with all the exact field values submitted earlier in that
report) one by one by clicking on Add Row in Part B, accordingly.




                                            Page 84 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




6.5        Validation of SRA using Report Generation Utility
 1. What is the purpose of Statement Validation in Report Generation Utility of 61B?
 Validation is a process of applying the data input rules to ensure that the data is in the prescribed
 format. Errors in data entry will be highlighted during the process of validation.
 2. How can a statement be validated in Report Generation Utility of Form 61B?
 Step 1: Click on “Validate” button on the tool bar
 Step 2: Utility will display validation errors on “Validation” Tab
 Step 3: Click on Validation row to see details of Validation errors on the right window pane of screen
 Step 4: Click on any particular validation error from list, utility will show the field highlighted in red,
       where corrections can be made
 Step 5: Fix the errors and then click on Validate button again
 Step 6: If there are no validation errors, “Validation Successful” dialog box is displayed to the user. In
       addition, certain validations will be applied by the Income Tax Department at their end.

 For more details refer “Report Generation Utility User Guides” in Resources section of Reporting
 Portal.
 3.   Is it mandatory to validate the statement?
 Yes. The statements with validation errors will be rejected in data quality check.
 4. What are various types of validation errors?
 The errors have been classified as mandatory errors, defects and exceptions.
 5. What are mandatory errors?
 Mandatory errors are schema level errors that need to be resolved by user for successful generation
 of XML report. These are generally schema level errors. For resolving these type of errors, the data
 filled should be as per the Form 61B schema validation.
 6. What are Statement Level Defects?
 Statement defects are those defects which render the Statement invalid. Statements with defects will
 be rejected and the reporting entity needs to resubmit the statement. The defect codes and the
 corrective actions is detailed in the respective report generation utility user guides.
 7. What are Report Level Defects?
 Report defects are those defects which render a particular report(s) as defective in the submitted
 statement. A statement may have multiple reports and only reports with defects would be marked as
 defective in the Data Quality Report. The reporting entity needs to correct and submit the reports again
 in the corrected statement. The defect codes and the corrective actions is detailed in respective report
 generation utility user guides.

 8. What are exceptions?
 Exceptions do not result in the statement/report being rejected. The exceptions should be reviewed by
 the reporting person/entities and if any information is available, the reporting entity may provide the
 information. If any defect is noticed, the reporting entity needs to rectify the defect by submitting a
 correction statement.



                                               Page 85 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 9. How to identify validation errors of Form 61B?
 When user clicks on the validate button, validation summary is displayed in the Validation Error tab.
 On selecting a particular row on the validation error screen, error details are displayed on the section
 on the right side. On selecting the error, user is directed towards the erroneous field on the screen.
 10. How to rectify validation errors of Form 61B?
 User can navigate to erroneous fields via Validation Error Details section on the right side of the screen.
 Erroneous fields are highlighted in Red and are editable for user to correct.
 11. Is Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) mandatory for filing of form 61B?
 The Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) is not mandatory at the time of registration of
 reporting entity. However, it is mandatorily required to be furnished while submitting the Form 61B (in
 Part A).
 12. How to obtain GIIN?
 For details to obtain GIIN, please refer to 'Guidance Note on FATCA and CRS' dated 31.05.2016, at
 para 9.3, page 87, ‘Requirement of obtaining GIIN’.

6.6     Generation of SRA using Report Generation Utility
 1. How to generate and save the statements of Form 61B?
 Step 1: Click on Generate XML button on the toolbar.

 Step 2: If there are no validation errors, user needs to provide the path to save generated XML and
       save the XML.

 2. What is the extension of generated XML file?
 Generated XML file should have ‘.xml’ extension.


6.7     Upload of SRA through Submission Utility
 1. How to download submission utility?
 The submission utility can be downloaded from “Resources” section of the Reporting Portal. The
 downloaded zip file has to be extracted using WinZip or WinRAR tools.

 2. Is any other software required to be installed to use Submission Utility?
 Yes. Submission utility requires JRE to run on Windows based operating system. Download and
 install JRE version 1.8 Update 101 or later.

 3. How to run submission utility?
 Step 1: Unzip the downloaded utility

 Step 2: Click on Submission_Utility.jar file to run the utility.

 4. How to view and save the digital signature certificate?
 To view and save a digital signature certificate, perform the following steps:


                                                Page 86 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Step 1: Open Internet Explorer

Step 2: Go to Settings >> Internet Options

Step 3: On the Internet Options pop-up, select the tab Content and then click the button Certificates

Step 4: A list of certificates is displayed on a new pop-up. Select the required certificate and click the
       Export button. Select the location where you want to save the certificate.

Step 5: The Certificate export wizard opens. Click Next to continue on the subsequent screens.

Step 6: On completing the wizard, Export Successful message is displayed.

Step 7: To sign a statement using the exported certificate, use the Submission Utility.

5. What are the steps to digitally sign the generated XML using submission utility?
Step 1. Go to “Secure XML” tab in submission utility

Step 2. Browse statement XML

Step 3. Click on “Generate Package” button (DSC should be connected to the system through USB
while generating package)

Step 4. A pop-up containing the list of saved digital signatures appears. Select the signature associated
with statement

Step 5. Click on “Sign”

Step 6. Enter the DSC user PIN

Step 7. Save the package. Secure statement package will be saved in defined name template (Form
Type_ITDREIN_TimeStamp). User should also not change the default file type (.tar.gz)
6. What is the extension of digitally signed package?
Digitally signed package shall be saved as “.tar.gz” extension.
7. Can digital signature certificate be copied?
A Digital Signature Certificate cannot be used without having a private key. The private key should
always be password-protected and not to be shared over a network.
8. Will the user be allowed to submit a statement if the statement is not signed with a valid
   Digital Signature Certificate?
No, the user will not be able to submit a statement if it is not signed with a valid Digital Signature
Certificate.
9. Who is the signatory authority for signing the statement XML for Form No. 61B?
The secured statement package is required to be submitted using a valid Digital Signature Certificate
of Designated Director.
10. Which class of digital signature certificate (DSC) should be used while signing the XML?
Digital signature certificate (DSC) should be of Class II or III only, issued by CCA approved certifying
agencies in India.




                                             Page 87 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 11. Is it mandatory to sign the statement XML with the same digital certificate which has been
     registered with ITD?
 Yes, Reporting Entity is required to register the DSC on Reporting Portal and ensure that the same
 DSC, which is registered on Reporting portal, is used to sign the secured statement package. Please
 note that any update in digital signature certificate should be updated on reporting portal also to avoid
 DSC mismatch issues.
 12. What are the steps to submit the statement through submission utility?
 Step 1: Go to “Statement >> Statement Upload” tab in submission utility

 Step 2: Enter user name and password

 Step 3: Select the form type to be uploaded and enter “ITDREIN”

 Step 4: “Reporting Period Ending On” & “Type of Filing”

 Step 5: Enter original statement id (only in case correction statement is being filed)

 Step 6: Attach the report and Click on “Validate”

 Step 7: If no manifest error displayed, “Upload” button will be displayed.

 Step 8: Click on “Upload”
 13. Can DQR be downloaded through submission utility?
 Yes, DQR can be downloaded through submission utility.


6.8     Upload of SRA on Reporting Portal
 1. What are the steps to submit a Form 61B statement?
 Step 1: Once statement XML is generated, sign and encrypt the XML using the Submission utility and
       prepare package to be uploaded (Refer submission utility user guide).
 Step 2: Go to “File Statement” section under “Statements” tab
 Step 3: Fill out the “Upload Statement” form (Depending upon Form 61, 61A, or 61B; the fields may
        differ)
 Step 4: Select the relevant option from the “Type of Filing” from drop-down
 Step 5: Enter original statement id (only in case correction statement is being filed)
 Step 6: Attach the report and click on “Validate”
 Step 7: If no manifest error is shown, Click on displayed “Upload” button
 Step 8: Upon successful submission, an email with “Acknowledgment Number” will be sent to the
       registered email id.
 For more details, refer “Report Generation Utility User Guide-61B”, “Reporting Portal User Guide” in
 Resources section of Reporting Portal.

 2. Who can submit the Form 61B statement?
 Only Designated Director of Reporting Entity can submit the statement.




                                              Page 88 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 3. What are the different manifest level errors which should be taken care of at the time of
    statement upload?

 Following manifest level errors should be checked and rectified at the time of statement upload:

      1. ITDREIN should be valid and must be in correct format.
      2. ITDREIN in the statement must match with the ITDREIN mentioned on Portal while
         uploading the statement.
      3. Selected Form should match with the actually prepared Form (61,61A or 61B).
      4. The original statement ID mentioned in the Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)/
         Deletion statement (Statement Type “DB”) must match with the statement ID of the Original
         Statement (Statement Type “NB”).
      5. The reporting period mentioned in statement must be related to Reporting Period selected on
         Portal while uploading the statement.
      6. The reporting period in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)/ “DB” (Deletion
          Statement) must match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type
         “NB”).
      7. In case statement type is “ND”, value of “Number of Reports” field should be 0.
      8. In case statement type is “NB”, value of “Number of Reports” field should be greater than 0.

 Please refer “Report Generation Utility User Guide” for more details about manifest, file and report level
 validations errors.

 4. What are the different file level errors which should be taken care of at the time of
    statement upload of Form 61B?
 Following file level errors should be checked and rectified at the time of statement upload:

      1. Secured statement package should be properly encrypted using digital certificate
      2. Secured statement package should be properly compressed.
      3. Secured statement package must be signed by valid digital signature which should be
         registered with ITD
      4. Secured statement package should be free of any threats
      5. Secured statement package should be free from any viruses
      6. Secured statement package should be as per the schema guide (refer Schema validation
          section)

 Please refer “Report Generation Utility User Guide-61B” for more details about manifest, file and
 record level validations errors.


6.9     SRA Preliminary Response
 1. What is Preliminary Response for Form No. 61B?
  Preliminary response for Form No. 61B can be submitted by Reporting Financial Institutions (RFI) to
 indicate if they have reportable accounts to be filed or not.
 Permissible input values of Preliminary Response for Form No. 61B are -


                                              Page 89 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Yes – Reportable Accounts to be filed
NIL – No Reportable Accounts
NA – Rule 114G is not applicable
2. How to report No Data without GIIN?
A Reporting Financial Institutions (RFI) who does not have GIIN can also report NIL (No data) by
   submitting Preliminary Response for Form No. 61B.
Permissible input values of Preliminary Response for Form No. 61B are -
Yes – Reportable Accounts to be filed
NIL – No Reportable Accounts
NA – Rule 114G is not applicable

3. Can both types of Reporting Financial Institutions (RFI), registered & unregistered submit
   Preliminary Response for Form No. 61B?
Yes, both types of Reporting Entities, registered & unregistered can submit Preliminary Response for
   Form No. 61B.

4. How can unregistered Reporting Financial Institutions (RFI) submit Preliminary Response
   for Form No. 61B?
Following Steps to be followed in order to submit Preliminary Response for Form 61B for
    Unregistered Reporting Financial Institutions (RFI):

1.   Log into e-filing portal
2.   Go to “My accounts” tab
3.   Select “Reporting Portal (Beta Version)”
4.   Select “Preliminary Response (Form 61B)”from option displayed
5.   Enter the details for each report type
6.   Submit

5. How can a registered Reporting Financial Institutions (RFI) (Institutions which have
   obtained ITDREIN for a particular Form type and entity category) submit Preliminary
   Response for Form No. 61B?
Following Steps to be followed to submit Preliminary Response for registered Reporting Financial
    Institutions (RFI):

1.   Log in to Reporting Portal
2.   Go to “Profile” section
3.   Click on “Preliminary Response (for form 61B)”
4.   Select relevant response from drop down in front of each SFT
5.   Submit

6. For which reporting period, Reporting Entities can submit preliminary response for Form
   No. 61B?
Reporting Financial Institutions (RFI) can submit preliminary response for the previous calendar year.
For example, for the reporting period 2017 (last of submission 31st May 2018), Reporting Financial
Institutions (RFI) can submit preliminary response for the calendar year 2017.




                                            Page 90 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




6.10     Data Quality Report (DQR) for Form 61B
 1. What is Data Quality Report (DQR)?
 The Data Quality Report contains details of the data quality errors/issues present in the statement (and
 reports) submitted by the Reporting Entity. DQR helps Reporting Entity(s) in identifying the errors in
 data submitted. There are two type of DQRs which is generated after submission of statements:
       a) Statement DQR
       b) Consolidated Defect DQR.


 2. Why is Data Quality Report (DQR) required?
 The report cannot be considered accurate if there are data quality errors. It is mandatory for Reporting
 Entities to file accurate reports in the prescribed formats as per law. Failure to comply with the
 provisions of law may attract penal provisions.
 3. What is Statement DQR?
 It is the Data Quality Report specific to the particular submitted statement against which it is visible
 and will not be updated post submission of a correction/ deletion statement on the original statement.
 4. How to download Statement Data Quality Report?
 The Reporting Entity can download the Statement Data Quality Report from both Reporting Portal and
 Generic Submission Utility.
 The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal are:
    Step 1: Login to Reporting Portal.
    Step 2: Click on “Uploaded Statements” tab under “Statements” module.
    Step 3: In “Uploaded Statements” tab, under the column Statement DQR, click on the download
    icon under XML/Summary PDF to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.
 The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Generic Submission Utility are:
    Step 1: Open the Generic Submission Utility.
    Step 2: Select Download DQR option under Statement tab.
    Step 3: Enter the authentication details (User Id and Password) and Statement Id for which the
    user needs to download the DQR.
    Step 4: Click on Download DQR to download the DQR XML.
 5. What is Consolidated Defect Data Quality Report?
 It is the Data Quality Report that displays defects in the original statement which are still pending for
 resolution. The submitted correction/ deletion statement (if any) is also considered for generating this
 DQR.
 6. How to download Consolidated Defect Data Quality Report?
 The Reporting Entity can download the Consolidated defect Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.
 The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal are:
 Step 1: Login to Reporting Portal.
 Step 2: Click on “Original Statements” tab under “Statements” module.
 Step 3: Under column Consolidated Defect DQR, click on download icon under XML/ Summary PDF
 to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.


                                             Page 91 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




It is to be noted that post submission of a correction/ deletion statement of the original statement,
Consolidated Defect DQR XML will be generated. Subsequent correction statements can be prepared
using the Consolidated Defect DQR XML.
7. What should be Reporting Entity’s next course of action after receiving DQR?
Step 1: Check if there are any statement level defects in the submitted statement.
Step 2: Any statement with statement level defects will be rejected and the reporting person/ entity
needs to resubmit the statement.
Refer to the quick reference guide “How to submit Correction and Deletion Statement” to file a deletion
statement.
Step 3: If there are no statement level defects, check for report level defects and exceptions in the
submitted statement.
Step 4: File a correction statement (Statement Type as “CB”) to rectify the report level defects and
exceptions*.
Refer to the quick reference guide “How to submit Correction and Deletion Statement” to file a
correction statement.
Step 5: Once uploaded, check for any further defects/exceptions in the correction statement.
Step 6: In case there are any further errors, file another correction statement to rectify them.


*The Reporting Person/Entity may file a correction statement to rectify the report level exceptions.

8. How to import DQR XML in utility of Form 61B?
The steps to import DQR in report generation utility are as follows:

    1. Download DQR in ZIP format from the reporting portal. Unzip the file to extract the DQR in
       XML form.
    2. Click View DQR on the report generation utility toolbar.
    3. On the Import DQR Window, click the Browse button against Import DQR Reports to find and
       upload the required DQR file. Next, click the Browse button against Import Statements to find
       and upload the Statement XML being corrected.
    4. Click OK.

9. What is Data Quality Summary Report?
The data quality summary report of a statement contains all the data quality errors in the statement. It
also contains the issue description and the corrective action required from the Reporting Entity.
10. What is DQR CSV?
DQR CSV is a CSV file having consolidated list of reports with issues (defect/ exceptions). Only the
key fields of such reports (reports having at least one defect/ exception) are provided. DQR CSV can
be downloaded from report generation utility after the successful import of DQR XML.
11. How to Download DQR CSV for Form 61B?
At the time of importing DQR in report generation utility, (after user clicks OK), a pop-up appears that
provides the option to download the DQR in CSV format. User can select option whether to download
the DQR CSV for reports having only defects, or both defects and exceptions.
12. What is Report Requiring Correction (RRC)?
RRC stands for Report Requiring Correction. It is a field that will display the number of reports which
are yet to be rectified in original statement. RRC field and count can be viewed under “Original

                                             Page 92 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Statements” tab on reporting portal. Reporting entity need to ensure to reduce RRC (Report Requiring
Correction) count to zero by rectifying all the defective reports.
13. How to file a Correction Statement (CB) for Form 61B?
In order to file a correction statement, the Reporting Entity needs to follow the below mentioned
steps:
Step 1: Open the Report Generation utility and click View DQR on the utility toolbar.
Step 2: Import the original statement XML, which is to be corrected and the corresponding Statement
Data Quality Report XML.
Step 3: Click OK. A message is displayed stating that the relevant XML has been imported successfully.
Step 4: The reports from the statement that contain errors (defects/ exceptions) are displayed on the
utility.
Step 5: The respective errors from each report are highlighted in the Validation Error Details sidebar.
Step 6: The user has to select each validation issue and make the required changes.
Step 7: Click on Statement (Part A) tab.
Step 8: The Part A details are pre-filled with Statement Type as CB-Correction Statement containing
correction for previously submitted information and original statement ID of the original statement
whose reports are being corrected.
Step 9: The reporting person/entity needs to re-check these fields and fill other details as required in
Part A before generating the correction statement XML.
Step 10: Click Generate XML on the toolbar to generate the correction statement’s XML.
Step 11: Prepare a secured statement package using the Generic Submission Utility and submit the
correction statement on Reporting Portal.
Redo the above steps till there are no defects in the submitted statement.
Note: Post submission of a correction/ deletion statement of the original statement, Consolidated
Defect DQR XML will be generated. Subsequent correction statements can be prepared using the
Consolidated Defect DQR XML.

14. What is Incorrect ITDREIN (40010) in Form 61B?

Incorrect ITDREIN (40010) issue arises when ITDREIN in the statement does not match with the
ITDREIN mentioned on portal while uploading the statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement using the correct ITDREIN to correct this issue.
15. Incorrect Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) (40011)
This issue is raised when GIIN in the statement does not match with the GIIN mentioned while
uploading the statement/ is not a valid GIIN.

Reporting entity shall submit the statement using the correct GIIN to correct this issue.
16. What is Incorrect Form Name (40020) in Form 61B?

Incorrect Form Name (40020) issue arises when Incorrect Form name is entered while uploading the
statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with Form Name as Form 61B to correct this issue.
17. What is Incorrect Original Statement ID for CB (40030) in Form 61B?

Incorrect Original Statement ID for CB (40030) issue arises when the original statement ID mentioned
in the Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does not match with the statement ID of the Original
Statement (Statement Type “NB”).

                                            Page 93 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct original statement ID to correct this issue.

18. What is Incorrect Original Statement ID for DB (40031) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when the original statement ID mentioned in the Deletion statement (Statement Type
“DB”) does not match with the statement ID of original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct original statement ID to correct this issue.

19. What is Inconsistent Statement Type ND for submitted reports (40040) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when Statement type is “ND” for a statement where number of reports is greater than
0.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with corrected statement type or number of reports to
resolve this issue.

20. What is Inconsistent Statement Type NB for nil reports (40041) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when Statement Type is “NB” (New Statement) for a statement where number of
reports is 0.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with corrected statement type or number of reports to
resolve this issue.
21. What is Inconsistent Statement Type (40042) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when the Statement Type selected while uploading the statement does not match
with the Statement Type mentioned in the statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with same statement type as selected on portal to resolve
this issue.
22. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for new statement (40050) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when Original statement ID is not 0 for Statement Type “NB” (New Statement).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement (statement type “NB) with original statement ID as 0 to
resolve this issue.
23. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for No Data statement (40051) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when Original statement ID is not 0 for Statement Type “ND” (No data to report).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement (statement type “ND) with original statement ID as 0 to
resolve this issue.
24. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for NB (40060) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not Applicable) for the Statement type
“NB” (New Statement).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.

25. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for ND (40061) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“ND” (No Data to Report).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.
26. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for CB (40062) in Form 61 B?

This issue arises when Reason for correction is “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type “CB”
(Correction Statement).


                                            Page 94 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction other than “N” to resolve this
issue.
27. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for DB (40063) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“DB” (Deletion Statement).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.

28. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for NB (40070)?

This issue arises when the reporting period mentioned in statement does not relate to the Reporting
Period selected on Portal while uploading the statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement for same reporting period which is selected on portal to
resolve this issue.

29. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for CB (40071) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when the reporting period in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does not
match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the correction statement (statement type “CB”) with same reporting period
as mentioned in the original statement which the reporting entity is trying to correct to resolve this
issue.

30. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for DB (40073) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when the reporting period in Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement) does not
match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the deletion statement (statement type “DB”) with same reporting period
as mentioned in the original statement to resolve this issue.

31. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for Form No. 61B (40077)?
This issue arises when reporting period mentioned in "NB" (New Statement)/ “ND” (No Data to Report)
statement is not a valid reporting period.
Reporting period of the submitted statement should not be before calendar year 2014 and after the
last completed reporting period
Reporting entity shall submit statement within the valid range of reporting period to resolve this issue.
32. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for Defective Statement (40101) for Form 61B?
This issue arises when the original statement ID mentioned in the Correction Statement (Statement
Type “CB”) corresponds to the defective statement.
Reporting entity shall always file New Statement (Statement Type as “NB”) for correcting the defective
statement.

33. What is Failed Decryption (50002) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when the file received from reporting portal is decrypted.
Reporting entity shall encrypt the file with a valid key and resubmit the file.
34. What is Failed Decompression (50003) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when the file received from reporting portal is decompressed.
Reporting entity shall compress the file and resubmit the file.




                                             Page 95 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




35. What is the “Failed Signature Check (50004)” error in Form 61B?
This issue arises when the digital signature on the received file is not valid.
Reporting entity shall re-sign the file with the valid Digital Signature of the Designated Director.

36. What is Failed Threat Scan (50005) in Form 61B?
This issue arises when the file contains any threats & viruses.
Reporting entity shall scan the file for threats and viruses, remove all detected threats and viruses prior
to encryption and submit the file.
37. What is Failed Virus scan (50006) in Form 61B?
This issue arises when the file contains any viruses.
Reporting entity shall scan the file for threats and viruses, remove all detected threats and viruses prior
to encryption and submit the file.

38. What is Failed Schema Validation (50007) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when the received file is not as per the form 61B schema guide (refer Schema
validation section).
Reporting entity shall re-validate the file against the XML Schema, resolve any validation errors and
submit the file


39. What is Signature not Uploaded (50021) in Form 61B?
This issue arises when the user has not uploaded the digital signature certificate file on the Reporting
portal.
Reporting entity shall upload the digital signature certificate file on the Reporting portal and submit the
file.
40. What is Signature Expired (50022) in Form 61B?

This issue arises when the digital signature certificate has been expired.
Reporting entity shall upload the updated digital signature certificate on the Reporting portal as the
existing certificate is expired.
41. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in CB (61B_98000)?


This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number for Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)
does not match with the report serial number as mentioned in the Original Statement (Statement Type
“NB”) submitted earlier.

42. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in DB (61B_98002)?


This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number for Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement)
does not match with the report serial number as mentioned in the Original Statement (Statement Type
“NB”) submitted earlier.
43. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in CB after Deletion (61B_98003)?


This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number mentioned in Statement Type “CB” (Correction
Statement) corresponds to the report already deleted.


                                             Page 96 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




44. What is Duplicate Report Serial Number (61B_98004)?


This issue arises when Duplicate Report Serial Number is provided within a statement.

45. What is Duplicate Original Report Serial Number (61B_98005)?


This issue arises when Duplicate Original Report Serial Number is provided within a statement in case
the Statement Type is “CB” (Correction Statement) & “DB” (Deletion Statement).

46. What is Truncated Account Number (61B_98160)?


This issue arises when Account Number reported is less than 4 digits.

47. What is Invalid Account Number (61B_98161)?


This issue arises when Account Number reported contains invalid character.

48. What is Modification in Account Number (61B_98162)?


This issue arises when Account number has been changed in Statement Type “CB” (correction
statement).

49. What is Failed Account structure (61B_60001)?


This issue arises when the Account number mentioned does not follow ISIN Structure. Account
number should be in ISIN format when Account Number Type is selected as “03” (International
Securities Information Number).
ISIN Format: 12-character alpha-numerical code:
 2 alphabetic characters, which are the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code for the issuing country,
 9 alpha-numeric characters (the National Securities Identifying Number, or NSIN, which identifies
the security, padded as necessary with leading zeroes), and
 1 numerical check digit.

50. What is Impermissible Account Number type (61B_98300)?


This issue arises when Impermissible Account number type “01” (International Bank Account Number)
is selected by Reporting Entity.
Indian Banks to use “02” (Other Bank Account number) as an option as IBAN is not applicable in case
of India.
51. What is Failed Date of closure (61B_98310)?


This issue arises when Account closure date is not provided when Account Status is “C” (Closed).

52. What is Invalid Postal code - India (61B_98092)?


This issue arises when Invalid postal code provided when country selected is India.


                                          Page 97 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




53. What is Wrong Postal code - India (61B_98093)?


This issue is raised when Wrong postal code is provided when country selected is India.
Pin code provided should be linked to state and locality
54. What is Insufficient Address (61B_98094)?


This issue arises when Address appears to be Insufficient /incomplete.

55. What is Invalid Country Code (61B_98095)?


This issue arises when Country selected in “Branch Details” is other than India.

56. What is Failed Mobile No India (61B_98100)?


This issue arises when Incorrect mobile number format is provided when country selected is India. It
should be 10-digit mobile Number and should start from 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9.

57. What is Failed Mobile No - Outside India (61B_98101)?


This issue arises when Incorrect mobile number format is provided when country selected is outside
India.
58. What is Failed Account balance (61B_60002)?


This issue arises when “Account balance or value at the end of reporting period” is less than zero.

59. What is Incorrect Account balance (61B_60003)?


This issue arises when Account balance is other than zero and Account Status is “C” (Closed) for
Report Type “02” (Other reportable accounts). Account balance should be zero for Report Type “02”
as Account is reported as closed.
60. What is Exceptional Account balance (61B_98330)?


This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 100 crores.

61. What is Modification in Account balance (61B_98331)?


This issue arises when “Account balance or value at the end of reporting period” has been changed in
Statement type “CB” (Correction Statement).
62. What is Failed Aggregate gross Interest paid or Credited (61B_98340)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross Interest paid or credited” not reported for Account Category
“DA” (Depository Account) or “CA” (Custodial Account).




                                           Page 98 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




63. What is Exceptional gross Interest paid or credited (61B_98341)?


This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 100 crores.

64. What is Modification in gross Interest paid or credited (61B_98342)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross Interest paid or credited” has been changed in Statement
Type “CB” (Correction Statement).

65. What is Failed Aggregate gross dividend paid or credited (61B_98350)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross dividend paid or credited” is not reported for Account category
“CA” (Custodial Account).

66. What is Exceptional gross dividend paid or credited (61B_98351)?


This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 100 crores.

67. What is Modification in gross dividend paid or credited (61B_98352)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross dividend paid or credited” has been changed in Statement
Type “CB” (Correction Statement).
68. What is Failed Gross proceeds from the sale of property (61B_98360)?


This issue arises when “Gross proceeds from the sale of property” is not reported for Account category
“CA” (Custodial Account).

69. What is Exceptional Gross proceeds from the sale of property (61B_98361)?


This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 100 crores

70. What is Modification in Gross proceeds from the sale of property (61B_98362)?


This issue arises when “Gross proceeds from the sale of property” has been changed in Statement
Type “CB” (Correction Statement).
71. What is Failed Aggregate gross amount of all other income paid or credited to the account
    (61B_98370)?

This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount of all other income paid or credited to the account”
not reported for Account category “CA” (Custodial Account).
72. What is Exceptional gross amount of all other income paid or credited (61B_98371)?


This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 100 crores.

73. What is Modification in gross amount of all other income paid or credited (61B_98372)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount of all other income paid or credited to the account”
has been changed in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement).
                                           Page 99 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




74. What is Exceptional gross amount credited (61B_98380)?


This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 100 crores

75. What is Modification in gross amount credited (61B_98381)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount credited” has been changed in Statement Type “CB”
(Correction Statement).

76. What is Mismatch in gross amount credited (61B_98382)?


This issue arises when Aggregate gross amount credited is less than sum of (gross interest paid,
(B.3.2) gross dividend paid (B.3.3), gross proceeds from sale of property (B.3.4) and gross amount of
all other income (B.3.5)).
77. What is Exceptional gross amount debited (61B_98390)?


This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 100 crores.

78. What is Modification in gross amount debited (61B_98391)?


This issue arises when “Aggregate gross amount debited” has been changed in Statement Type “CB”
(Correction Statement).
79. What is Blank First Name Individual (61B_70002)?


This issue arises when First Name is not provided for Individual Account Holder. Reporting entity can
mention “NFN” if it does not have a complete First Name.
80. What is Blank Last Name Individual (61B_70003)?


This issue arises when Last Name is not provided for Individual Account Holder. Reporting entity can
mention the full name if it does not have a Last Name
81. What is Incorrect Name Type (61B_60004)?


This issue arises when Name Type is not “N1” (SMFAliasOrOther) and the Report Type is “02” (Report
of other reportable accounts under Rule 114G).
82. What is Blank Father’s Name for individual without PAN (61B_98020)?


This issue arises when Father’s Name is blank and PAN is not provided. Father’s Name is mandatory
if PAN is not provided.
83. What is No PAN (61B_98034)?


This issue arises when PAN is not provided.




                                          Page 100 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




84. What is Invalid PAN (61B_98035)?


This issue arises when there is Invalid PAN (not in valid format/ does not match with the PAN
database).
PAN should be of format: CCCCCNNNNC; where C denotes the alphabets and N is numeric.

85. What is Modified PAN (61B_98032)?


This issue arises when Valid PAN/PAN(s) has been changed (added/deleted) in Statement Type “CB”
(Correction Statement). The modification in PAN may be verified and if it was not intended, correction
statement may be filed again.

86. What is Invalid Aadhaar Number (61B_98040)?


This issue arises when Invalid Aadhaar Number format (12 digits) is provided in the report.

87. What is Wrong Aadhaar Number (61B_98041)?


This issue arises when Wrong Aadhaar Number is provided in the report.

88. What is Failed Identification Number for no PAN case (61B_70011)?


This issue arises when Identification type is not provided and PAN is also not provided.

89. What is Failed DOB/DOI for no PAN case (61B_98073)?


This issue arises when Date of birth/ incorporation is blank and PAN is not provided.

90. What is Failed Date of Birth Range (61B_60014)?


This issue arises when Date of birth is not in valid year range Valid date of birth range = from
01.01.1900 to end of reporting period.
91. What is Failed Country of Residence (61B_98400)?


This issue arises when Incorrect country code is provided where Documentation Status is
“Documented”. Country code should not be “XX” In such a scenario.
92. What is Blank Place of Birth/ Incorporation (61B_98401)?


This issue arises when Place of Birth/ Incorporation is not provided.

93. What is Blank Country of birth/ Incorporation for US Reportable Accounts (61B_98402)?


This issue arises when Country of Birth is not provided where report type is 01 i.e. US Reportable
Accounts and the Documentation Status is “Documented”. This information is mandatory for foreign
national (other than India) or non-resident.




                                           Page 101 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




94. What is Blank Foreign TIN - Individual (61B_70001)?


This issue arises when Tax Identification Number (TIN) allotted by tax resident country (other than
India) is not provided.
This information is mandatory for foreign national (other than India) or non-resident.

95. What is Blank TIN country (61B_98410)?


This issue arises when Details of TIN Issuing country (other than India) are not provided.
This information is mandatory for foreign national (other than India) or non-resident.

96. What is Failed Contact details (61B_98103)?


This issue arises when Contact details are not provided.

97. What is Incorrect Controlling person details (61B_60005)?


This issue arises when Controlling person details are provided when “Account Holder Type for Other
Reportable Person” is “C2” (other reportable person) or “C3” (Passive Non-Financial Entity that is a
CRS Reportable) with Report Type “02” (Report of other reportable accounts under Rule 114G).
Controlling person details should be provided only when “Account Holder Type for Other Reportable
Person” is “C1” (Passive Non-Financial Entity with one or more controlling person that is Reportable
Person) with Report Type “02” (Report of other reportable accounts under Rule 114G).
98. What is Missing Controlling Person details (61B_60006)?


This issue arises when Controlling person details are not provided when “Account Holder Type for
Other Reportable Person” is “C1” (Passive Non-Financial Entity with one or more controlling person
that is Reportable Person) with Report Type “02” (Report of other reportable accounts under Rule
114G).

99. What is Inconsistent Account Holder type for US reportable Person – Report Type 01
    (61B_98420)?

This issue arises when Account Holder Type for US Reportable Person is “XX” when the Report Type
is “01”.
100.    What is Inconsistent Account Holder type for US reportable Person – Report Type 02
    (61B_98421)?

This issue arises when Account Holder Type for US Reportable Person is not “XX” when the Report
Type is “02”.

101.    What is Inconsistent Account Holder type for Other reportable Person – Report Type
    01 (61B_98422)?

This issue arises when Account Holder Type for other Reportable Person is not “XX” when the report
type is “01”.
102.    What is Inconsistent Account Holder type for Other reportable Person – Report Type
    02 (61B_98423)?

This issue arises when Account Holder Type for other Reportable Person is “XX” when the report type
is “02”.

                                           Page 102 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




103.    What is Blank First Name Controlling Person (61B_70007)?

This issue arises when First Name not provided for Controlling Person. Reporting entity can mention
“NFN” if it does not have a complete First Name.
104.    What is Blank Last Name Controlling Person (61B_70008)?

This issue arises when Last Name is not provided for Controlling Person. Reporting entity can mention
the full name if it does not have a Last Name.
105.    What is Blank Foreign TIN - Controlling Person (61B_70006)?

This issue arises when Tax Identification Number (TIN) allotted by tax resident country (other than
India) is not provided. This information is mandatory for foreign national (refer Nationality field) or non-
resident.

106.   How to resolve the issue that arises when Country of Birth/Incorporation is not
    reported for US Reportable Accounts?

The mentioned issue arises when country of birth/ incorporation is not provided for report type is 01
i.e. US Reportable Accounts. It is mandatory to provide Country of Birth/incorporation while submitting
Form 61B for both, foreign national (other than India) or non-resident.
Reporting entity can resolve this defect by filing correction statement (Statement type “CB”) and
providing country of birth/ incorporation for relevant US reportable accounts.

107.   How to resolve the issue that arises when Impermissible account number type is
    submitted by Indian Banks?

This issue arises when Impermissible Account number type “01” (International Bank Account
Number) has been selected by Reporting Entity (B.1.7) while submitting Form 61B. Indian Banks
should use “02” (Other Bank Account number) as account number type as IBAN (International Bank
Account Number) is not applicable in case of Indian Banks.
Reporting entity should file correction statement (Statement type “CB”) with the correct account
number type to resolve this issue.

108.    How to resolve the issue that arises when Invalid account number has been reported
    in Form 61B?

This issue arises when reported account number reported in Form 61B is not valid. The account
number should not contain invalid character or it should not be uploaded with exponential values.
Reporting entity should file correction statement (Statement type “CB”) with the correct account
number to resolve this issue.

109.   What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Statement Type ND for submitted
    reports (40040) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when Statement Type is “ND” (No Data to Report) for a statement where
number of reports is greater than 0.
In such a scenario, The inconsistency in the statement type has been ignored and statement is
considered as “NB” (New Statement).
In case statement type is not “NB” (New Statement), kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement
Type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.




                                             Page 103 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




110.   What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Statement Type NB for nil
    reports (40041) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when Statement Type is “NB” (New Statement) for a statement where number
of reports is 0.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the statement type has been ignored and statement is
considered as “ND” (No Data to Report).
In case Statement Type is not “ND” (No Data to Report), kindly file a new original statement (Statement
Type as “NB”) with reports
111.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Original Statement ID for new
    statement (40050) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when Original statement ID is not 0 for a Statement Type “NB” (New
Statement).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the original statement ID has been ignored and original
statement ID is considered as 0.
In case the statement type is not “NB” (New Statement), kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement
Type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
112.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Original Statement ID for No Data
    statement (40051) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when Original statement ID is not 0 for Statement Type “ND” (New
statement with no data to report).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the original statement ID has been ignored and original
statement ID is considered as 0.
 In case Statement Type is not “ND” (No data to Report), kindly use the deletion functionality
(Statement Type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
113.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for NB
    (40060) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for Statement
Type “NB” (New Statement)”
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N” (Not Applicable).
In case reason for correction is not “N”, kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement Type as “DB”)
to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
114.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for ND
    (40061) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the
Statement type “ND” (No Data to Report).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N” (Not Applicable).
In case reason for correction is not “N”, kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement Type as
“DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.




                                           Page 104 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




115.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for CB
    (40062) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when Reason for correction is “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“CB” (Correction Statement)
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “A” (Acknowledgement of original statement had many errors which are
being resolved).
116.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for DB
    (40063) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement
Type “DB” (Deletion Statement).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for deletion has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N” (Not applicable).

117.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for NB & ND
    (40070) in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when the reporting period mentioned in statement does not match with
reporting period entered on Reporting Portal, while uploading the statement
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period has been ignored and the reporting done
is considered for the reporting period selected on portal while uploading the statement.
In case statement is not related to the reporting period selected on Portal, kindly use the deletion
functionality to delete the statement and file a new original statement.

118.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for CB (40071)
    in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when the reporting period for Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)
does not match with the reporting period of the original statement.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period of correction statement has been ignored
and the reporting period of the original statement has been maintained. In case the reporting period in
the original statement was incorrect, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and
file a new original statement

119.    What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for DB (40073)
    in Form 61B?
This exception is raised when the reporting period in Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement) does
not match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period of deletion statement has been ignored
and the reporting period of the original statement has been maintained. In case the reporting period in
the original statement was incorrect, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and
file a new original statement.
120.   What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Number of Reports (40100) in
    Form 61B?
This exception is raised when number of reports mentioned in Part A does not match with the actual
number of reports.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the field “number of reports” has been ignored and actual
number of reports is considered as “number of reports”.
In case the actual number of reports is not to be considered, kindly use the deletion functionality to
delete the statement and file a new original statement.


                                           Page 105 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




7. Statement containing particulars of declaration received in Form
   60 (Form 61)

7.1       Reporting Obligation
 1. What is Form 61?
 Rule 114B specifies certain transactions for which quoting of PAN is mandatory. In case a person
 (other than a company or a firm) does not have a PAN and who enters any such transaction is required
 to file a declaration in Form 60. Every entity who receives such Form 60 is required to file a statement
 in Form 61 containing particulars of declarations received in such Form 60.
 2. Who is required to submit Form 61?
 Every person who has received any declaration in Form 60, on or after the 1st day of January, 2016,
 in relation to a transaction specified in rule 114B has to submit Form 61.
 3. How can an entity comply with reporting obligations for Form 61?
 As per Rule 114B, a person is required to quote his PAN if he wishes to undertake a transaction
 mentioned in this rule. Under certain circumstances as mentioned in this rule, a person not having a
 PAN can file declaration in Form 60 and undertake such transaction. The entity which accepts such
 declarations is required to file a summary of such declarations received in Form 61 to comply with the
 reporting obligations.
 4. What are transactions for which Form 61 is required to be submitted?
 Rule 114B specifies the following transactions-
         Sale or purchase of a motor vehicle or vehicle other than two wheeled vehicles.
         Opening an account [other than a time-deposit referred to at Sl. No.12 and a Basic Savings
          Bank Deposit Account]
         For issue of a credit or debit card.
         Opening of a demat account with a depository, participant, custodian of securities or any other
          person
         Payment to a hotel or restaurant against a bill or bills at any one time in cash of amount
          exceeding Rs. 50,000/-.
         Payment in connection with travel to any foreign country or payment for purchase of any foreign
          currency at any one time in cash of amount exceeding Rs. 50,000/-.
         Payment to a Mutual Fund for purchase of its units of amount exceeding Rs. 50,000/-
         Payment to a company or an institution for acquiring debentures or bonds issued by it of
          amount exceeding Rs. 50,000/-.
         Payment to the Reserve Bank of India of amount exceeding Rs. 50,000/-.
         Cash Deposits exceeding fifty thousand rupees during any one day or aggregating to more
          than two lakh fifty thousand rupees during the period 09th November, 2016 to 30th December,
          2016 with any bank or post office.
         Purchase of bank drafts or pay orders or banker's cheques in cash for an amount exceeding
          fifty thousand rupees during any one day.
         A time deposit with a bank, post office, Nidhi or NBFC Amount exceeding fifty thousand rupees
          or aggregating to more than five lakh rupees during a financial year.




                                                 Page 106 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




         Payment for one or more pre-paid payment instruments in cash or by way of a bank draft or
          pay order or banker's cheque of an amount aggregating to more than fifty thousand rupees in
          a financial year.
         Payment as life insurance premium of amount aggregating to more than fifty thousand rupees
          in a financial year.
         A contract for sale or purchase of securities (other than shares) of amount exceeding one lakh
          rupees per transaction.
         Sale or purchase, by any person, of shares of a company not listed in a recognized stock
          exchange of amount exceeding one lakh rupees per transaction.
         Sale or purchase of any immovable property of amount exceeding ten lakh rupees or valued
          by stamp valuation authority referred to in section 50C of the Act at an amount exceeding ten
          lakh rupees.
         Sale or purchase, by any person, of goods or services of any nature other than those specified
          above, if any of amount exceeding two lakh rupees per transaction.
 5. Who is responsible for generating Form 60 Acknowledgement number?
 With reference to the para 8 of instruction No. 1 of 2018 dated 05/04/2018, the Reporting
 Person/Entity has to generate Form 60 acknowledgement number on its own.
 6. What is the due date of furnishing the Form 61?
 Form 61 shall be filed twice a year –
 H1 - where the declarations in Form 60 are received from 01st of April to 30th September, be furnished
 by 31st of October immediately following, and
 H2 - where such declarations are received from 01st of October to 31st March, be furnished by 30th of
 April immediately following.

 7. How can an entity submit Form 61?
 The form can be submitted online by logging to the portal https://report.insight.gov.in.
 For detailed steps refer section upload of form 61 on reporting portal.

 8. What are the consequences of not furnishing Form 61?
 Filing of Form 61 is linked with Form 61A also. Statement of Financial Transactions (SFT) is required
 to be filed in Form 61A for the financial year by 31 st of May immediately following. If any transactions
 are there for which PAN has not been taken by an entity, acknowledge no. of filing of Form 61 is
 required to be mentioned in Form 61A. Therefore, an entity is required to file Form 61 before it can file
 Form 61A.



7.2       Reporting Format
 1. What are the different parts of Form 61?
 Form 61 has two parts. Part A contains particulars of the reporting person and whether the statement
 is original or revised.
 Part B contains details of the transacting person and details of financial transactions undertaken.

 2. What is a Statement in relation to Form 61?
 A Statement is a compilation of reports in prescribed format i.e. in Form 61 containing details of Form
 60 as specified in Rule 114D.


                                             Page 107 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 3. What are different statement types?
 One Statement can contain only one type of Statement. Permissible values for type of Statement are:
         NB – New Statement containing new information
         CB – Correction Statement containing corrections for previously submitted information
         DB - Deletion Statement for deletion of previously submitted information
         ND - No Data to report

 4. What is the difference between Statement Number and Statement ID?
 Statement Number is a free text field capturing the sender’s unique identifying number (created by the
 sender) that identifies the particular Statement being sent. The identifier allows both the sender and
 receiver to identify the specific Statement later if questions or corrections arise. After successful
 submission of the Statement to ITD, a new unique Statement ID will be allotted for future reference.
 The reporting person/entity should maintain the linkage between the Statement Number and Statement
 ID. In case the correction statement is filed, statement ID of the original Statement which is being
 corrected should be mentioned in the element ‘Original Statement ID’. In case the Statement is new
 and unrelated to any previous Statement, ‘0’ will be mentioned in the element ‘Original Statement ID’.
 5. What is original statement ID?
 Statement ID of the original Statement which is being replaced deleted or referred by reports in the
 current Statement. In case the Statement is new and unrelated to any previous Statement, mention ‘0’
 in the field “original statement ID”.
 6. What is Report Serial Number?
 The Report Serial Number uniquely represents a report within a Statement. The Report Serial Number
 should be unique within the Statement. This number along with Statement ID will uniquely identify any
 report received by ITD. In case of correction, the complete report has to be resubmitted. The Report
 Serial Number of the original report that has to be replaced or deleted should be mentioned in the
 element ‘Original Report Serial Number’. This number along with Original Statement ID will uniquely
 identify the report which is being corrected. In case there is no correction of any report, ‘0’ will be
 mentioned in the element ‘Original Report Serial Number’.
 7. What is Original Report Serial Number?
 The Report Serial Number of the original report that has to be replaced or deleted. This number along
 with Original Statement ID will uniquely identify the report which is being corrected. In case there is no
 correction of any report, mention ‘0’ in the field “Original Report Serial Number”.


7.3       Preparation of Form 61 using Report Generation Utility
 1. What is a Report Generation Utility?
 Report Generation Utility is a desktop utility based on java. The utility enables user to generate and
 validate XML file which is to be submitted to Income-tax Department.

 2. How to download and install the Report Generation Utility of 61 on a windows platform?
 The Report Generation Utility can be downloaded from “Resources” section of the Reporting Portal.
 The downloaded zip file has to be extracted using WinZip or WinRAR tools.

 3. Is any other software required to be installed to use Report Generation Utility of Form 61?
 Yes. Report Generation Utility requires JRE to run on Windows based operating system. Download
 and install JRE version 1.8 Update 101 or later.



                                             Page 108 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




4. How to run the Report Generation Utility for Form 61?
Step 1: Unzip the downloaded utility
Step 2: Click on Form61.jar file to run the utility.

5. How to prepare a statement using Report Generation Utility of Form 61?
Step 1: Go to Reporting Portal at https://report.insight.gov.in.
Step 2: Download Report Generation Utility from “Resources” section.
Step 3: Select the Transaction Type (for Form 61) on Instructions window.
Step 4: Capture Statement Details and other relevant details depending upon the form type.
For more details refer “Report Generation Utility User Guides” in Resources section of Reporting
Portal.

6. How to capture data in the Report Generation Utility for Form 61?
Data can be captured either by data entry or by importing CSV.
7. How to load an existing XML file?
The steps to load an existing XML file are:

    1. Open Report Generation and Validation Utility (For the Form Type corresponding to the XML
       file).
    2. Click on the “Open” button on Report Generation and Validation Utility.
    3. Browse the XML which is to be loaded and click on “OK”.

8. What date format should be used while filling CSV?
User should use DD-MM-YYYY format while entering data in CSV. If date is entered in incorrect format,
the CSV will not be imported successfully.
9. Can data be saved before generating the XML file in Report Generation Utility for Form
   61?
Yes. User can save the data using the “Save” button in the tool bar. The data is saved with a draft
extension. To retrieve the saved data in the utility, use the “Open” button from the tool bar.

10. How to capture information for an account with more than one account holder?
For an account with more than one account holder, a user needs to enter multiple record rows, where
account details (including “Report Serial Number”) will be repeated for each account holder. The utility
will automatically create reports with unique Report Serial Number.
11. How to view information after importing CSV of Form 61?
After successful CSV import, data is visible in the relevant tabs of the utility.

12. If corrections have to be made only to a statement, keeping reports unchanged, should the
    reports also be submitted along with the corrected statement?
No, facility to correct the statement level issues is not provided. Instead of correcting the statement,
user has to submit the Deletion Statement (DB) with all the reports filed in the original statement and
submit a new statement (NB) with correct statement details and relevant reports.




                                              Page 109 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 13. Form 61 was uploaded with Statement type “ND” (No Data to Report) and a DQR issue was
     reported on it afterwards. But some reportable data pertaining to this statement was
     received later on the basis of which reporting entity submitted “NB” (New Statement). What
     should be the status of the already issued DQR in this case?
 For such scenario, the DQR issued on statement type “ND” (No data to report) will be closed. However,
 a new DQR can be generated on the data received in statement type “NB” (New Statement) during
 processing of such NB Statement.
 14. If the Reporting Entity wants to correct the report details that were wrongly reported, what
     is the corrective procedure?
 If Reporting Entities wants to correct any report uploaded earlier, Statement Type “CB” (Correction
 Statement) with correct reports can be filed. User must ensure that correct “Original Statement ID and
 “Original Report Serial Number” is provided in the correction statement and reports.


7.4       Preparation of Deletion Statement
 1. What do we understand by statement type “DB” - Deletion Statement for deletion of
    previously submitted statement?
 Reporting entities has been provided with a facility to delete previously submitted reports due to any of
 specific reasons:

         Deleting Reports as they were not required to be reported
         Deleting Reports as they are already reported in other / same statement (Duplicate reporting)
         Others

 The Reporting Entity should provide a reason for deletion in the Remarks field if “Others” is selected.

 2. Can a Reporting Entity delete previously submitted information for rectification of
    information provided in reports?
 No, Reporting Entities are advised NOT to use the statement deletion functionality to correct reports in
 a previously submitted information. They are advised to file a Correction Statement (Statement type
 “CB”) in such a scenario.
 3. Which statement is to be referred while deleting reports?
 Original Statement should be referred while deleting the reports . Deletion statement should contain
 only those reports which are to be deleted from original statement.




                                             Page 110 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




4. What are the steps to prepare a deletion statement for Form 61 in report generation
   utility?
The step-by-step process to generate deletion statement XML is as follows:

    1. Open the Report Generation Utility. Click Open button and browse the original statement XML
       or enter report details in Part B.
    2. Note that deletion statement should contain only those reports which are to be deleted from
       original statement. Reports which are not to be deleted from original statement should be
       removed from populated original XML in utility by selecting row and clicking on Delete Row to
       remove such reports from the utility OR alternatively, reports to be deleted from a single
       statement may be entered manually (with all the exact field values submitted earlier in that
       report) one by one by clicking on Add Row in Part B, accordingly.
    3. Click the Statement (Part A) tab and from the Statement Type drop-down list, select DB -
       Deletion Statement for deletion of previously submitted information.
    4. Mention the statement ID of the original Statement in the Original Statement ID field from which
       the reports are being deleted.
    5. Mention the Report serial number and the original report serial number for the relevant reports.
    6. Click Generate XML on the toolbar to generate the deletion statement’s XML and to prepare a
       secured statement package.

5. Whether Data Quality Report (DQR) will be generated on Deletion Reports also?
System will reject the reports in deletion statement if the attributes provided in the deletion report do
not match with the original reports’ attributes. Same shall be communicated to reporting entity in data
quality report. Reporting entities need to file a new deletion statement for rejected reports as mentioned
in DQR.

6. Is partial deletion allowed for already submitted reports for Form 61?
Yes, Partial deletion is allowed for already submitted reports. Deletion statement should contain only
those reports which are to be deleted from original statement. Reports which are not to be deleted from
original statement should be removed from populated XML in utility by selecting row and clicking on
Delete Row to remove such reports from the utility OR alternatively, reports to be deleted from a
single statement may be entered manually (with all the exact field values submitted earlier in that
report) one by one by clicking on Add Row in Part B or C or D as applicable, accordingly.




                                            Page 111 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




7.5     Validation of Form 61 using Report Generation Utility
 1. What is the purpose of Statement Validation in Report Generation Utility of Form 61?
 Validation is a process of applying the data input rules to ensure that the data is in the prescribed
 format. Errors in data entry will be highlighted during the process of validation.
 2. How can a statement be validated in Report Generation Utility of Form 61?
 Step 1: Click on “Validate” button on the tool bar
 Step 2: Utility will display validation errors on “Validation” Tab
 Step 3: Click on Validation row to see details of Validation errors on the right window pane of screen
 Step 4: Click on any particular validation error from list, utility will show the field highlighted in red,
       where corrections can be made
 Step 5: Fix the errors and then click on Validate button again
 Step 6: If there are no validation errors, “Validation Successful” dialog box is displayed to the user. In
       addition, certain validations will be applied by the Income Tax Department at their end.
 For more details refer “Report Generation Utility User Guides” in Resources section of Reporting
 Portal.

 3.   Is it mandatory to validate the statement?
 Yes. The statements with validation errors will be rejected in data quality check.

 4. What are various types of validation errors?
 The errors have been classified as mandatory errors, defects and exceptions.

 5. What are mandatory errors?
 Mandatory errors are schema level errors that need to be resolved by user for successful generation
 of XML report. These are generally schema level errors. For resolving these type of errors, the data
 filled should be as per the Form 61 schema validation.

 6. What are Statement Level Defects?
 Statement defects are those defects which render the Statement invalid. Statements with defects will
 be rejected and the reporting entity needs to resubmit the statement. The defect codes and the
 corrective actions is detailed in the respective report generation utility user guides.

 7. What are Report Level Defects?
 Report defects are those defects which render a particular report(s) as defective in the submitted
 statement. A statement may have multiple reports and only reports with defects would be marked as
 defective in the Data Quality Report. The reporting entity needs to correct and submit the reports again
 in the corrected statement. The defect codes and the corrective actions is detailed in respective report
 generation utility user guides.

 8. What are exceptions?
 Exceptions do not result in the statement/report being rejected. The exceptions should be reviewed by
 the reporting person/entities and if any information is available, the reporting entity may provide the
 information. If any defect is noticed, the reporting entity needs to rectify the defect by submitting a
 correction statement.
 9. How to identify validation errors of Form 61?
 When user clicks on the validate button, validation summary is displayed in the Validation Error tab.
 On selecting a particular row on the validation error screen, error details are displayed on the section
 on the right side. On selecting the error, user is directed towards the erroneous field on the screen.

                                              Page 112 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 10. How to rectify validation errors of Form 61?
 User can navigate to erroneous fields via Validation Error Details section on the right side of the screen.
 Erroneous fields are highlighted in Red and are editable for user to correct.


7.6     Generation of Form 61 using Report Generation Utility
 1. How to generate and save the statements of Form 61?
 Step 1: Click on Generate XML button on the toolbar.

 Step 2: If there are no validation errors, user needs to provide the path to save generated XML and
       save the XML.

 2. What is the extension of generated XML file?
 Generated XML file should have ‘.xml’ extension.




7.7     Upload of Form 61 through Submission Utility
 1. How to download submission utility?

 The submission utility can be downloaded from “Resources” section of the Reporting Portal. The
 downloaded zip file has to be extracted using WinZip or WinRAR tools.
 2. Is any other software required to be installed to use Submission Utility?

 Yes. Submission utility requires JRE to run on Windows based operating system. Download and install
 JRE version 1.8 Update 101 or later.
 3. How to run submission utility?

 Step 1: Unzip the downloaded utility
 Step 2: Click on Submission_Utility.jar file to run the utility.
 4. How to view and save the digital signature certificate?

 To view and save a digital signature certificate, perform the following steps:
 Step 1: Open Internet Explorer
 Step 2: Go to Settings >> Internet Options
 Step 3: On the Internet Options pop-up, select the tab Content and then click the button Certificates
 Step 4: A list of certificates is displayed on a new pop-up. Select the required certificate and click the
         Export button. Select the location where you want to save the certificate.
 Step 5: The Certificate export wizard opens. Click Next to continue on the subsequent screens.
 Step 6: On completing the wizard, Export Successful message is displayed.
 Step 7: To sign a statement using the exported certificate, use the Submission Utility.
 5. What are the steps to digitally sign the generated XML using submission utility?

 Step 1. Go to “Secure XML” tab in submission utility
 Step 2. Browse statement XML


                                               Page 113 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




Step 3. Click on “Generate Package” button (DSC should be connected to the system through USB
while generating package)
Step 4. A pop-up containing the list of saved digital signatures appears. Select the signature associated
with statement
Step 5. Click on “Sign”
Step 6. Enter the DSC user PIN
Step 7. Save the package. Secure statement package will be saved in defined name template (Form
Type_ITDREIN_TimeStamp). User should also not change the default file type (.tar.gz)
6. What is the extension of digitally signed package?

Digitally signed package shall be saved as “.tar.gz” extension.
7. Can digital signature certificate be copied?

A Digital Signature Certificate cannot be used without having a private key. The private key should
always be password-protected and not to be shared over a network.
8. Will the user be allowed to submit a statement if the statement is not signed with a valid
   Digital Signature Certificate?
No, the user will not be able to submit a statement if it is not signed with a valid Digital Signature
Certificate.
9. Who is the signatory authority for signing the statement XML for Form No. 61?

The secured statement package is required to be submitted using a valid Digital Signature Certificate
of Principal Officer.
10. Which class of digital signature certificate (DSC) should be used while signing the XML?

Digital signature certificate (DSC) should be of Class II or III only, issued by CCA approved certifying
agencies in India.

11. Is it mandatory to sign the statement XML with the same digital certificate which has been
    registered with ITD?
Yes, Reporting Entity is required to register the DSC on Reporting Portal and ensure that the same
DSC, which is registered on Reporting portal, is used to sign the secured statement package. Please
note that any update in digital signature certificate should be updated on reporting portal also to avoid
DSC mismatch issues.
12. What are the steps to submit the statement through submission utility?

Step 1: Go to “Statement >> Statement Upload” tab in submission utility
Step 2: Enter user name and password
Step 3: Select the form type to be uploaded and enter “ITDREIN”
Step 4: “Reporting Period Ending On” & “Type of Filing”
Step 5: Enter original statement id (only in case correction statement is being filed)
Step 6: Attach the report and Click on “Validate”
Step 7: If no manifest error displayed, “Upload” button will be displayed.
Step 8: Click on “Upload”




                                            Page 114 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




 13. Can DQR be downloaded through submission utility?

 Yes, DQR can be downloaded through submission utility



7.8     Upload of Form 61 on Reporting Portal
 1. What are the steps to submit a Form 61 statement?
 Step 1: Once statement XML is generated, sign and encrypt the XML using the Submission utility and
       prepare package to be uploaded (Refer submission utility user guide).
 Step 2: Go to “File Statement” section under “Statement” tab.
 Step 3: Fill out the “Upload Statement” form (Depending upon Form 61, 61A, or 61B; the fields may
       differ)
 Step 4: Select the relevant option from the “Type of Filing” from drop-down.
 Step 5: Enter original statement id (only in case correction statement is being filed)
 Step 6: Attach the report and Click on “Validate.”
 Step 7: If no manifest error is shown, Click on displayed “Upload” button.
 Step 8: Upon successful submission, an email with “Acknowledgment Number” will be sent to the
       registered email id.
 For more details, refer “Report Generation User Guide-61”, “Reporting Portal User Guide” in Resources
 section of Reporting Portal.
 2. Who can submit the Form 61 statement?
 In case of Form 61, only the principal officer of reporting entity can submit the statement.

 3. What are the different manifest level errors which should be taken care of at the time of
    statement upload?
 Following manifest level errors should be checked and rectified at the time of statement upload:

      1. ITDREIN should be valid and must be in correct format.
      2. ITDREIN in the statement must match with the ITDREIN mentioned on Portal while
         uploading the statement.
      3. Selected Form should match with the actually prepared Form (61,61A or 61B).
      4. The original statement ID mentioned in the Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)/
         Deletion statement (Statement Type “DB”) must match with the statement ID of the Original
         Statement (Statement Type “NB”).
      5. The reporting period mentioned in statement must be related to Reporting Period selected on
         Portal while uploading the statement.
      6. The reporting period in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)/ “DB” (Deletion
         Statement) must match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type
         “NB”).
      7. In case statement type is “ND”, value of “Number of Reports” field should be 0.
      8. In case statement type is “NB”, value of “Number of Reports” field should be greater than 0.

 Please refer “Report Generation Utility User Guide” for more details about manifest, file and report level
 validations errors.

 4. What are the different file level errors which should be taken care of at the time of
    statement upload of Form 61?
 Following file level errors should be checked and rectified at the time of statement upload:

                                             Page 115 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




      1. Secured statement package should be properly encrypted using digital certificate
      2. Secured statement package should be properly compressed.
      3. Secured statement package must be signed by valid digital signature which should be
         registered with ITD
      4. Secured statement package should be free of any threats
      5. Secured statement package should be free from any viruses
      6. Secured statement package should be as per the schema guide (refer Schema validation
         section)

 Please refer “Report Generation Utility User Guide” for more details about manifest, file and record
 level validations errors.


7.9      Data Quality Report (DQR) for Form 61
 1. What is Data Quality Report (DQR)?
 The Data Quality Report contains details of the data quality errors/issues present in the statement (and
 reports) submitted by the Reporting Entity. DQR helps Reporting Entity(s) in identifying the errors in
 data submitted. There are two type of DQRs which is generated after submission of statements:
      a) Statement DQR
      b) Consolidated Defect DQR.

 2.    Why is Data Quality Report (DQR) required?
 The report cannot be considered accurate if there are data quality errors. It is mandatory for Reporting
 Entities to file accurate reports in the prescribed formats as per law. Failure to comply with the
 provisions of law may attract penal provisions.

 3. What is Statement DQR?
 It is the Data Quality Report specific to the particular submitted statement against which it is visible
 and will not be updated post submission of a correction/ deletion statement on the original statement.
 4. How to download Statement Data Quality Report?
 The Reporting Entity can download the Statement Data Quality Report from both Reporting Portal and
 Generic Submission Utility.
 The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal are:
      Step 1: Login to Reporting Portal.
      Step 2: Click on “Uploaded Statements” tab under “Statements” module.
      Step 3: In “Uploaded Statements” tab, under the column Statement DQR, click on the download
      icon under XML/Summary PDF to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.
 The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Generic Submission Utility are:
      Step 1: Open the Generic Submission Utility.
      Step 2: Select Download DQR option under Statement tab.
      Step 3: Enter the authentication details (User Id and Password) and Statement Id for which the user
      needs to download the DQR.
      Step 4: Click on Download DQR to download the DQR XML.




                                             Page 116 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




5. What is Consolidated Defect Data Quality Report?
It is the Data Quality Report that displays defects in the original statement which are still pending for
resolution. The submitted correction/ deletion statement (if any) is also considered for generating this
DQR.
6. How to download Consolidated Defect Data Quality Report?
The Reporting Entity can download the Consolidated defect Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.
The steps to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal are:
Step 1: Login to Reporting Portal.
Step 2: Click on “Original Statements” tab under “Statements” module.
Step 3: Under column Consolidated Defect DQR, click on download icon under XML/ Summary PDF
to download the Data Quality Report from Reporting Portal.
It is to be noted that post submission of a correction/ deletion statement of the original statement,
Consolidated Defect DQR XML will be generated. Subsequent correction statements can be prepared
using the Consolidated Defect DQR XML.

7.    What should be Reporting Entity’s next course of action after receiving DQR?
Step 1: Check if there are any statement level defects in the submitted statement.
Step 2: Any statement with statement level defects will be rejected and the reporting person/ entity
needs to resubmit the statement.
Refer to the quick reference guide “How to submit Correction and Deletion Statement” to file a deletion
statement.
Step 3: If there are no statement level defects, check for report level defects and exceptions in the
submitted statement.
Step 4: File a correction statement (Statement Type as “CB”) to rectify the report level defects and
exceptions*.
Refer to the quick reference guide “How to submit Correction and Deletion Statement” to file a
correction statement.
Step 5: Once uploaded, check for any further defects/exceptions in the correction statement.
Step 6: In case there are any further errors, file another correction statement to rectify them.
*The Reporting Person/Entity may file a correction statement to rectify the report level exceptions.

8.    How to import DQR XML in utility of Form 61?
The steps to import DQR in report generation utility is as follows:

     1. Download DQR in ZIP format from the reporting portal. Unzip the file to extract the DQR in
        XML form.
     2. Click View DQR on the report generation utility toolbar.
     3. On the Import DQR Window, click the Browse button against Import DQR Reports to find and
        upload the required DQR file. Next, click the Browse button against Import Statements to find
        and upload the Statement XML being corrected.
     4. Click OK.

9. What is Data Quality Summary Report?
The data quality summary report of a statement contains all the data quality errors in the statement. It
also contains the issue description and the corrective action required from the Reporting Entity.



                                            Page 117 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




10. What is DQR CSV?
DQR CSV is a CSV file having consolidated list of reports with issues (defect/ exceptions). Only the
key fields of such reports (reports having at least one defect/ exception) are provided. DQR CSV can
be downloaded from report generation utility after the successful import of DQR XML.
11. How to Download DQR CSV for Form 61?
At the time of importing DQR in report generation utility, (after user clicks OK), a pop-up appears that
provides the option to download the DQR in CSV format. User can select option whether to download
the DQR CSV for reports having only defects, or both defects and exceptions.
12. What is Report Requiring Correction (RRC)?
RRC stands for Report Requiring Correction. It is a field that will display the number of reports which
are yet to be rectified in original statement. RRC field and count can be viewed under “Original
Statements” tab on reporting portal. Reporting entity need to ensure to reduce RRC (Report Requiring
Correction) count to zero by rectifying all the defective reports.

13. How to file a Correction Statement (CB) for Form 61?
In order to file a correction statement, the Reporting Entity needs to follow the below mentioned steps:
Step 1: Open the Report Generation utility and click View DQR on the utility toolbar.
Step 2: Import the original statement XML, which is to be corrected and the corresponding Statement
Data Quality Report XML.
Step 3: Click OK. A message is displayed stating that the relevant XML has been imported successfully.
Step 4: The reports from the statement that contain errors (defects/ exceptions) are displayed on the
utility.
Step 5: The respective errors from each report are highlighted in the Validation Error Details sidebar.
Step 6: The user has to select each validation issue and make the required changes.
Step 7: Click on Statement (Part A) tab.
Step 8: The Part A details are pre-filled with Statement Type as CB-Correction Statement containing
correction for previously submitted information and original statement ID of the original statement
whose reports are being corrected.
Step 9: The reporting person/entity needs to re-check these fields and fill other details as required in
Part A before generating the correction statement XML.
Step 10: Click Generate XML on the toolbar to generate the correction statement’s XML.
Step 11: Prepare a secured statement package using the Generic Submission Utility and submit the
correction statement on Reporting Portal.
Redo the above steps till there are no defects in the submitted statement.
Note: Post submission of a correction/ deletion statement of the original statement, Consolidated
Defect DQR XML will be generated. Subsequent correction statements can be prepared using the
Consolidated Defect DQR XML.

14. What is Incorrect ITDREIN (40010) in Form 61?
Incorrect ITDREIN (40010) issue arises when ITDREIN in the statement does not match with the
ITDREIN mentioned on portal while uploading the statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement using the correct ITDREIN to correct this issue.




                                           Page 118 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




15. What is Incorrect Form Name (40020) in Form 61?
Incorrect Form Name (40020) issue arises when Incorrect Form name entered while uploading the
statement.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with Form Name as Form 61B to correct this issue.
16. What is Incorrect Original Statement ID for CB (40030) in Form 61?
Incorrect Original Statement ID for CB (40030) issue arises when the original statement ID mentioned
in the Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does not match with the statement ID of the Original
Statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct original statement ID to correct this issue.

17. What is Incorrect Original Statement ID for DB (40031) in Form 61?
This issue arises when the original statement ID mentioned in the Deletion statement (Statement Type
“DB”) does not match with the statement ID of original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with correct original statement ID to correct this issue.

18. What is Inconsistent Statement Type ND for submitted reports (40040) in Form 61?
This issue arises when Statement type is “ND” for a statement where number of reports is greater than
0.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with corrected statement type or number of reports to
resolve this issue.

19. What is Inconsistent Statement Type NB for nil reports (40041) in Form 61?
This issue arises when Statement Type is “NB” (New Statement) for a statement where number of
reports is 0.
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with corrected statement type or number of reports to
resolve this issue.

20. What is Inconsistent Statement Type (40042) in Form 61?
This issue arises when the Statement Type selected while uploading the statement does not match
with the Statement Type mentioned in the statement.

Reporting entity shall submit the statement with same statement type as selected on portal to resolve
this issue.
21. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for new statement (40050) in Form 61?
This issue arises when Original statement ID is not 0 for Statement Type “NB” (New Statement).

Reporting entity shall submit the statement (statement type “NB) with original statement ID as 0 to
resolve this issue.
22. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for No Data statement (40051) in Form 61?
This issue arises when Original statement ID is not 0 for Statement Type “ND” (No data to report).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement (statement type “ND) with original statement ID as 0 to
resolve this issue.
23. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for NB (40060) in Form 61?
This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not Applicable) for the Statement type
“NB” (New Statement).

Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.
                                            Page 119 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




24. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for ND (40061) in Form 61?
This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“ND” (No Data to Report).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.
25. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for CB (40062) in Form 61?
This issue arises when Reason for correction is “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type “CB”
(Correction Statement).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction other than “N” to resolve this
issue.

26. What is Inconsistent Reason for correction for DB (40063) in Form 61?
This issue arises when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“DB” (Deletion Statement).
Reporting entity shall submit the statement with reason for correction as “N” to resolve this issue.

27. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for NB & ND (40070)
This issue arises when the reporting period mentioned in statement does not match with reporting
period entered on Reporting Portal, while uploading the statement.
The inconsistency in the reporting period has been ignored and the reporting done is considered for
the reporting period selected on portal while uploading the statement.
In case statement is not related to the reporting period selected on Portal, kindly use the deletion
functionality to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
28. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for CB (40071) in Form 61?
This issue arises when the reporting period in Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement) does not
match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the correction statement (statement type “CB”) with same reporting period
as mentioned in the original statement which the reporting entity is trying to correct to resolve this
issue.

29. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period/ Half Year (40072)?
Inconsistent Reporting Period/ Half Year (40072) issue arises when the period selected in the field
“Reporting Period” & “Half Year” while submitting Form 61, on reporting portal, does not match with
the “Reporting Period” mentioned in statement.
30. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for DB (40073) in Form 61?
This issue arises when the reporting period in Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement) does not
match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
Reporting entity shall submit the deletion statement (statement type “DB”) with same reporting period
as mentioned in the original statement to resolve this issue.
31. What is Inconsistent Reporting Period for Form No. 61 (40074)?
This issue arises when Reporting period mentioned in "NB" (New Statement)/ “ND” (No Data to Report)
statement is not a valid reporting period. Reporting period of the submitted statement should not be
before financial year 2015-16 and after the last completed reporting period.
Reporting entity shall submit statement within the valid range of reporting period to resolve this issue.




                                           Page 120 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




32. What is Inconsistent Original Statement ID for Defective Statement (40101) for Form 61?
This issue arises if the original statement ID mentioned in the Correction Statement (Statement Type
“CB”) corresponds to the defective statement.
Please make sure to always file New Statement (Statement Type as “NB”) for correcting the defective
statement

33. What is Failed Decryption (50002) in Form 61?

This issue arises when the file received from reporting portal is decrypted.
Reporting entity shall encrypt the file with a valid key and resubmit the file.

34. What is Failed Decompression (50003) in Form 61?

This issue arises when the file received from reporting portal is decompressed.
Reporting entity shall compress the file and resubmit the file.

35. What is the “Failed Signature Check (50004)” error in Form 61?
This issue arises when the digital signature on the received file is not valid.
Reporting entity shall re-sign the file with the valid Digital Signature of the Designated Director.
36. What is Failed Threat Scan (50005) in 61?
This issue arises when the file contains any threats & viruses.
Reporting entity shall scan the file for threats and viruses, remove all detected threats and viruses prior
to encryption and submit the file.

37. What is Failed Virus scan (50006) in Form 61?
This issue arises when the file contains any viruses.
Reporting entity shall scan the file for threats and viruses, remove all detected threats and viruses prior
to encryption and submit the file.
38. What is Failed Schema Validation (50007) in Form 61?

This issue arises when the received file is not as per the form 61 schema guide (refer Schema
validation section).
Reporting entity shall re-validate the file against the XML Schema, resolve any validation errors and
submit the file
39. What is Signature not Uploaded (50021) in Form 61?
This issue arises when the user has not uploaded the digital signature certificate file on the Reporting
portal.
Reporting entity shall upload the digital signature certificate file on the Reporting portal and submit the
file.

40. What is Signature Expired (50022) in Form 61?

This issue arises when the digital signature certificate has been expired.
Reporting entity shall upload the updated digital signature certificate on the Reporting portal as the
existing certificate is expired.




                                             Page 121 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




41. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in CB (61_98000)?
This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number for Statement Type ”CB” (Correction Statement)
does not match with the report serial number as mentioned in the Original Statement (Statement Type
“NB”) submitted earlier.
42. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in DB (61_98002)?
This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number for Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement)
does not match with the report serial number as mentioned in the Original Statement (Statement Type
“NB”) submitted earlier.
43. What is Failed Original Report Serial Number in CB after Deletion (61_98003)?
This issue arises when Original Report Serial Number mentioned in Statement Type “CB” (Correction
Statement) corresponds to the report already deleted.

44. What is Duplicate Report Serial Number (61_98004)?

This issue arises when Duplicate Report Serial Number is provided within a statement.
45. What is Duplicate Original Report Serial Number (61_98005)?
This issue arises when Duplicate Original Report Serial Number provided within a statement in case
the Statement Type is “CB” (Correction Statement) & “DB” (Deletion Statement).

46. What is Failed Date of Birth Range (61_98071)?
This issue arises when Date of birth is not in valid year range (for individual) i.e. date of birth should
not be before 01.01.1900 and not after the end of reporting period.

47. What is Invalid PAN Acknowledgment Number format (61_98440)?
Invalid PAN Acknowledgment Number format (61_98440) issue arises when Invalid format of PAN
Acknowledgement number (15 digits) is entered.
48. What is Wrong PAN Acknowledgement Number (61_98441)?
Wrong PAN Acknowledgement Number (61_98441) issue arises when Wrong PAN Acknowledgement
number is entered.
49. What is Invalid Aadhaar Number (61_98040)?
This issue arises when Invalid Aadhaar Number format (12 digits) is provided in the report.

50. What is Wrong Aadhaar Number (61_98041)?
This issue arises when Wrong Aadhaar Number is provided in the report.

51. What is Invalid Postal code – India (61_98092)?
This issue arises when Invalid postal code is provided when country selected is India.

52. What is Wrong Postal code – India (61_98093)?
This issue arises when Wrong postal code is provided when country selected is India.
Pin code provided should be linked to state and locality.

53. What is Insufficient Address (61_98094)?
This issue arises when Address appears to be Insufficient /incomplete.




                                            Page 122 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




54. What is Failed Mobile No - India (61_98100)?
This issue arises when Incorrect mobile number format is provided when country selected is India. It
should be a 10 digit mobile number and should start from 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9.

55. What is Failed Mobile No - Outside India (61_98101)?
This issue arises when Incorrect mobile number format is provided when country selected is outside
India.Maximum 15 digits are allowed.

56. What is Exceptional estimated agricultural Income (61_ 98450)?
This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 1 crore.

57. What is Modification in estimated agricultural Income (61_ 98451)?
This issue arises when “Estimated Agricultural Income” has been changed in Statement Type “CB”
(Correction Statement).
58. What is Exceptional estimated non- agricultural Income (61_ 98460)?
This issue arises when Amount reported is greater than 1 crore.

59. What is Modification in estimated non-agricultural Income (61_ 98461)?
This issue arises when “Estimated Non-Agricultural Income” has been changed in Statement Type
“CB” (Correction Statement).
60. What is Exceptional Transaction Amount (61_98252)?
This issue arises when Transaction Amount is more than 1 crore.

61. What is Modified Transaction Amount (61_98255)?
This issue arises when Transaction Amount has been changed in Statement Type “CB” (Correction
Statement).
62. What is a valid year range for Date of birth?
The valid year range for date of birth of reported individual should not be earlier then 01.01.1900 and
not after the end of reporting period for Form 61.
Exception will be raised, if the date of birth of reported individual is not in a valid year range. This can
be resolved by filing correction statement (Statement type “CB”) and providing correct date of birth in
relevant reports.
63. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Statement Type ND for submitted
    reports (40040) in Form 61?
This exception is raised when Statement Type is “ND” (No Data to Report) for a statement where
number of reports is greater than 0.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the statement type has been ignored and statement is
considered as “NB” (New Statement).
In case Statement Type is not “NB” (New Statement), kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement
Type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.




                                             Page 123 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




64. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Statement Type NB for nil reports
    (40041) in Form 61?
This exception is raised when Statement Type is “NB” (New Statement) for a statement where number
of reports is 0.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the statement type has been ignored and statement is
considered as “ND” (No Data to Report).
In case Statement Type is not “ND” (No Data to Report), kindly file a new original statement (Statement
Type as “NB”) with reports
65. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Original Statement ID for new
    statement (40050) in Form 61?
This exception is raised when Original statement ID is not 0 for a Statement Type “NB” (New
Statement).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the original statement ID has been ignored and original
statement ID is considered as 0.
In case the statement type is not “NB” (New Statement), kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement
Type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
66. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Original Statement ID for No Data
    statement (40051) in Form 61?
This exception is raised when Original statement ID is not 0 for Statement Type “ND” (New
statement with no data to report).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the original statement ID has been ignored and original
statement ID is considered as 0.
 In case Statement Type is not “ND” (No data to Report), kindly use the deletion functionality
(Statement Type as “DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
67. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for NB (40060)
    in Form 61?
This exception is raised when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for Statement
Type “NB” (New Statement)”
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N” (Not Applicable).
In case reason for correction is not “N”, kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement Type as “DB”)
to delete the statement and file a new original statement.
68. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for ND (40061)
    in Form 61?
This exception is raised when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the
Statement type “ND” (No Data to Report).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N” (Not Applicable).
In case reason for correction is not “N”, kindly use the deletion functionality (Statement Type as
“DB”) to delete the statement and file a new original statement.




                                           Page 124 of 127
Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




69. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for CB (40062)
    in Form 61?
This exception is raised when Reason for correction is “N” (Not applicable) for the Statement type
“CB” (Correction Statement)
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for correction has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “A” (Acknowledgement of original statement had many errors which are
being resolved).
70. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reason for correction for DB (40063)
    in Form 61?
This exception is raised when Reason for correction is other than “N” (Not applicable) for the
Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reason for deletion has been ignored and reason for
correction is considered as “N” (Not applicable).

71. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for NB & ND
    (40070) in Form 61?
This exception is raised when the reporting period mentioned in statement does not match with
reporting period entered on Reporting Portal, while uploading the statement
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period has been ignored and the reporting done
is considered for the reporting period selected on portal while uploading the statement.
In case statement is not related to the reporting period selected on Portal, kindly use the deletion
functionality to delete the statement and file a new original statement.

72. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for CB (40071) in
    Form 61?
This exception is raised when the reporting period for Statement Type “CB” (Correction Statement)
does not match with the reporting period of the original statement.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period of correction statement has been ignored
and the reporting period of the original statement has been maintained. In case the reporting period in
the original statement was incorrect, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and
file a new original statement

73. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Reporting Period for DB (40073) in
    Form 61?
This exception is raised when the reporting period in Statement Type “DB” (Deletion Statement)
does not match with the reporting period of the original statement (Statement Type “NB”).
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the reporting period of deletion statement has been ignored
and the reporting period of the original statement has been maintained. In case the reporting period in
the original statement was incorrect, kindly use the deletion functionality to delete the statement and
file a new original statement.
74. What is the Statement Level Exception - Inconsistent Number of Reports (40100) in Form
    61?
This exception is raised when number of reports mentioned in Part A does not match with the actual
number of reports.
In such a scenario, the inconsistency in the field “number of reports” has been ignored and actual
number of reports is considered as “number of reports”.
In case the actual number of reports is not to be considered, kindly use the deletion functionality to
delete the statement and file a new original statement.


                                           Page 125 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




8. Resources

8.1     Quick Reference Guides
 1. What is a quick reference guide? How can user access/download it?
 Quick reference guide provides a concise & targeted course of action for performing the tasks. It can
 be downloaded from the resources section of Reporting Portal.


8.2     User Guides
 1.   How can one download detailed guides?
 User guides can be downloaded from the resources section of Reporting Portal.


8.3     Schema Guides
 1.   What are the schema guides and how can they be useful?
 Schema guides are meant to assist in creation of xml files in the format acceptable to the Income tax
 Department. The acceptable schema guides are published from time to time for each type of statement
 to be submitted by the Reporting Entity and these guides must be adhered to for submission of error
 free statements by the entity.

 2.   How can one download the schema guides?
 Schema guides can be downloaded from the “Resources” section of Reporting Portal.


8.4     Training Tool Kit
 1. What is a training tool kit?
 Training Toolkit contains multiple documents intended to give assistance to Reporting Entity users in
 using the Reporting Portal and reporting utility.

 2.   How can one access the training tool kit?
 Step 1: Log in to the Reporting Portal

 Step 2: Navigate to the “Resources” tab and click on “Training Tool kit”




                                            Page 126 of 127
 Reporting Portal FAQs Version 4.3




9. Others

9.1     My query/problem is not listed here
 1. What should a user do if its query/problem is not listed in FAQs?
 Step 1: Click on the “Help” icon on the Reporting Portal

 Step 2: Click on “Contact us” button

 Step 3: Select the issue category and sub-category

 Step 4: Enter details if user is not logged in/registered

 Step 5: Click on “Email Us” and describe the problem being faced and click on “Submit”




                                              Page 127 of 127
